As the weather gets cool and the crispness of apples signals the sweet, fleeting passage of fall, it's time to get cooking. You'll likely find eight types of apples for sale in a good grocery store these days, and a dozen or more in a big farmers' market. Luckily, apples are a great cooking fruit. We matched some favorite apple varieties to recipes designed to unlock the flavor potential and personality of each one.. Crisp and tangy-sweet, the Pink Lady is very good for eating raw or baking. They also work wonderfully well in applesauce or purreed soups.. A cross between a Jonathan and a Golden Delicious apple, this variety is crisp and sweet yet balanced with acidity. Jonagolds are good for both raw and cooked applications..  .  . Balanced sweet-tart flavor make Liberty apples great for eating raw. They also hold up well to being sautéed for compotes..  .  . Slightly crisp, sweet, and low in acid, this variety is slow to oxidize, so the flesh will stay white longer in raw applications. For a delicious and satisfying alternative to dessert, make a Liberty apple and cheese plate to enjoy after dinner. It will be a light and healthier alternative to the typical post-dinner fare.. This mild-tasting variety is best for baking because the raw flesh can sometimes be soft or mealy..  .  . Every bit as sweet and firm as the name suggests, this juicy apple is great for raw uses but also holds its shape very well and develops complex flavor when baked..  .  . This sweet juicy hybrid variety is descended from McIntosh apples. It's a good all-purpose apple, suitable for baking, sauces, or eating raw..  .  . The candy-sweet, crisp Fuji is best for raw uses. In our recipe for Brie, Apple and Arugula Quesadillas, they offer a crisp counterpoint to the rich, creamy cheese..  .  . If you're baking a whole apple, choose carefully. We baked nine varieties for one hour at 350° and found that the firm Granny Smith apple (the mess, right) collapsed and turned to complete mush. The Honeycrisp, however, retained its shape and had a pleasing, slightly firm texture and full apple flavor, faring the best of the nine varieties. Other varieties that kept their shape: Rome, Jonagold, and Spartan.. You can't go wrong with the gorgeous Apple Upside-Down Cake. Mild Rome apples are great for baking this scrumptious upside-down cake, however, you can also use Pink Lady, Honeycrisp, or Jonagold apples. Dollop the cake with a bit of whipped cream, if desired.. Pink Lady apples are wonderful for applesauce, and so work very well in this pureed appetizer soup. Sweet Fuji or all-purpose Spartan apples would also lend themselves nicely to the dish.. Jonagold apples bring some tartness to the lightly sweet squash-based filling. You can also use other good baking apples like Honeycrisp or Rome to vary the flavor to this seasonal side dish.. Fuji apples offer a crisp counterpoint to the rich, creamy Brie cheese in these craveworthy quesadillas. Substitute Honeycrisp or Ambrosia apples, if you prefer.. Take a break from classic tomato salsas and opt for a fruitier, seasonal option. This sweet-tart condiment features crisp, slightly acidic Spartan apples, though Fuji, Jonagold, and Liberty apples would also work nicely. This fresh, fruity salsa is the perfect addition to any Fall menu or fun occasion, and it's super easy to make. Eat it straight out of the bowl, snack on it with chips, or serve with pork or roast chicken. Serve it immediately, or let it sit overnight to let the flavors incorporate.. Pink Lady apples. Sweet Pink Lady apples hold up well to being sauteed for the compote in this comforting French toast. Fuji, Liberty, or Jonagold apples would also work. Challah is a rich, traditional Jewish bread; substitute Hawaiian bread if challah isn’t available. .  Honeycrisp apples. Sugary-sweet Honeycrisp apples balance the spiced wine in this festive drink. Pink Lady or Ambrosia apples—which are slow to oxidize—would make good substitutes.