Don’t go all tweezer-happy—full brows are more flattering. "Tweeze strays where necessary, then fill in your brows with a pencil one shade lighter than your natural brow color," says celebrity brow expert Robert Bolanos. This creates a softer, more natural effect—using the same shade can look harsh.. Try .  ($20; . ).. The latest way to get amazing skin: Power up your face-washing routine with a rotating cleansing brush, the at-home facial appliance derms are buzzing about.. "The micro-massaging bristles help loosen trapped makeup and dirt without additional scrubbing," says Tina Alster, MD, clinical professor of dermatology at Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington, DC. "Plus, we’ve seen conditions like acne and rosacea start to clear up when these brushes are used.". : Check out .  ($119; . ), which comes with a sensitive-skin brush; additional brush heads are $25 each.. If you’re not already hooked on mineral makeup, now’s the time to get in on this healthy trend. The latest mineral finds boast good-for-your-skin ingredients like soybean extract and seaweed, in addition to being free of preservatives, synthetics, and artificial oils.. Makeup pro Bobbi Brown’s first mineral product, a foundation (. , $38; . ), and the new pressed mineral eye shadow from Bare Minerals, shown (. , $20 and $30 respectively; . ). When you’re feeling the need for a hair change-up, consider the bob—the hottest chop around. "Besides looking great on all face shapes, it can be styled straight or wavy and still look chic," says Dimitrios Tsioumas, creative director at Mizu New York salon.. For the newest version, stylists suggest either going shorter (stopping at the jawline) and razor-cutting layers all over for a softer, not-so-perfect finish, or trying the slightly longer, below-the-chin option (shown on Jessica).. A new line of hair brushes from Conair uses innovative shapes to give a bigger root boost or soft, cascading waves. Swap your standard round brush for one of these:.  ($10; . ). The cone shape creates a flattering curl that’s narrower near roots and wider at the ends.. Nothing opens up your eyes like long, thick lashes. If yours are naturally sparse or short, there are two new ways to make over what you’ve got:. • At the salon, check out .  (starting at $40; salon locator at crybabymascara.com), a 30-minute service where a waterproof fiber mixture is applied over lashes, boosting volume and length for two weeks (it slowly wears off).. • Don’t want to leave your house? Try .  ($70; . ), an all-natural lash-growth serum you apply once a day along the base of your lids.. No wonder celebs like Drew Barrymore and Scarlett Johansson have recently experimented with going red: The color is known to warm up all skin tones, says William George, owner of James Joseph Salon in Boston. The simplest way to get it? An at-home foam hair color, which is drip-free and spreads easily. (Go for copper if you’re fair, auburn for olive skin, and mahogany for dark tones.).  .  ($10; . ), .  ($13; . ), or .  ($9; . ).. Heavy creams aren’t the only way to hydrate when the weather, and your skin, get dry. Facial oils are just as moisturizing, and sink in quicker—meaning you don’t have to wait long to apply makeup. "They’re packed with hydrating fatty acids and feel very light," explains Tammy Fender, a facialist in Palm Beach, Florida..  ($70; . ) contains organic vitamins C and E to plump and soften fine lines.