April 29, 2013.  Too bad your daughter had to have surgery, but hopefully she will get more restful sleep now. There are two main types of sleep apnea (or not breathing while sleeping): central sleep apnea and obstructive sleep apnea.. In central sleep apnea, the brain simply does not prompt the body to breathe. A very common example of this would be premature babies who need caffeine to stimulate their central nervous system enough to breathe. Before a baby on caffeine can go home from the neonatal intensive care unit, he or she has to pass a trial period off caffeine while on monitors to ensure there are no more episodes of prolonged apnea (20 seconds or longer). If there is any concern, the neonatal specialist will keep the baby longer, or send the baby home on an apnea monitor. Which of these occurs depends on many factors, and the safety of the baby always comes first.. Your daughter was treated for obstructive sleep apnea. While sleeping, the airway relaxes and enlarged tonsils or adenoids that do not cause problems during the waking hours can obstruct the airway. All people will snore at some point. This is not a concern unless prolonged pauses in breathing, or apnea, occur, in which case your child's pediatrician will refer you to an ear, nose and throat specialist, to discuss potentially removing the tonsils and adenoids.. If the obstructive sleep apnea was caused by enlarged tonsils and adenoids, your daughter should be safe from it coming back after the surgery. Leftover remnants of the tonsils and adenoids can grow again but usually not enough to cause obstructive sleep apnea.. April 17, 2013.  Good news! If he was sent home after getting a diagnosis of HSP, or Henoch-Schönlein purpura, his pediatrician must not believe he has a bad case. HSP can be caused by an unusual reaction to infection, medication, insect bite, food or vaccination. It is more common in children, especially boys.. HSP causes an inflammation of the blood vessels, or vasculitis. When blood vessels are inflamed or irritated, they can leak. The first noticeable sign of HSP blood vessel inflammation is usually of the skin. The leaking red blood cells cause a skin rash called purpura. The rash likely led your girlfriend to take him to the doctor. Often this rash is preceded by joint pain, but not always.. However, there can also be inflammation with HSP, as well as leaking of the blood vessels in the intestines and the kidneys. If there were intestinal or kidney involvement, that would be of more concern. A simple urine test can check the kidneys. If you suspect blood in the stool, that can also be checked. In fact, kidney involvement is rather common with HSP, and many doctors check the urine whether you have noticed dark-colored urine or not.. Whether or not your girlfriend's doctor sent her son to the emergency room depends on the symptoms he had in the office. She would have been told to call her pediatrician if she noticed any new symptoms like lethargy, bloody stools, dark urine or increasing abdominal or joint pain.. The treatment prescribed may be ibuprofen for joint pain, antibiotics if there is a bacterial infection, or steroids if there is kidney involvement. If the symptoms are more severe, hospitalization may be required. Most kids with HSP do not need to be hospitalized, but all kids with HSP need to be monitored closely by a pediatrician.. March 14, 2013. A: Congrats on having him daytime potty-trained at 2 ½ years old. Unfortunately nighttime potty-training usually takes longer and many children are still not nighttime trained at 4 years old. It is more likely to occur in boys and often runs in families. Ask family members privately and you may be surprised at how many of them wet the bed as children.. Most girls are fully trained by age 5 and boys by 6. According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, nocturnal enuresis (nighttime bed-wetting) affects 5 million children older than age 6 in the United States.. You are correct that limiting fluid intake is a must. Many times it is the little things that get in the way. Kids will drink water after brushing their teeth and not realize how much they consumed. Ask your son how much water he drinks, rather than if he drinks water. By not putting him on the defensive, you will be more likely to find out if he is drinking something.. Emptying the bladder like you are having him do just before bed is also imperative. In addition, have your son empty his bladder just after dinner. Another influencing factor may be constipation, where the stool fullness presses on the bladder. Urinary tract infections and stress, among other things, can cause enuresis as well.. One other thing to try is having him relax with quiet time for the last hour before bed. If his muscles are not moving much, he will not have increased blood supply to the muscles. When we relax and do not need the extra blood supply, our body gets rid of the fluid by making urine. If the first time his body relaxes is when he lays down in bed, he may have a full bladder during the night. A good way to start relaxation time is reading to him before bed. It will help him relax and get him interested in books. Avoid the TV because that can affect his quality of sleep.. If these suggestions do not help, talk to your pediatrician. There are other possible medical reasons and options that take into account your child's personal medical and social history.. Nov. 6, 2012. A: Congratulations! Your baby is growing up. There are many new steps coming for you and baby. Starting solid foods is one that many parents enjoy. Before deciding which food to start with, think about whether your baby is ready for solids on a spoon. In general, do not add solids to a bottle unless your baby's pediatrician tells you to do so because of reflux.. In order to start solids, babies must be able to hold their head steady while sitting in a seat. In other words, they must be a "supported sitter.". Additionally, younger babies have a tongue thrust reflex, meaning the tongue pushes the spoon out of the mouth. Most term babies lose this reflex around 4 months old. Pediatricians usually recommend waiting until 4 months to start solids, but check with your pediatrician to see if your baby is ready.. The American Academy of Pediatricians recommends continuing to exclusively breastfeed without introducing solids until 6 months old if that is your baby's milk source.. Whether you are breastfeeding or bottle feeding, please continue to give babies their milk source in addition to the solids.. Once you decide your baby is ready, single grain cereals are a good place to start. While rice is the most common, you can also try oatmeal or barley. Rice and oatmeal are good for babies with softer stools, as they can firm up stools. If your baby is already a little constipated, you may consider a barley cereal instead.. Whichever type of cereal you try, give that cereal for at least three days before making any changes and do not add anything new during this time. Bon appetit!. Oct. 22, 2012. A: Great news! The chickenpox vaccine is quite safe, and your child does not have to get chickenpox disease. The need for chickenpox parties is over.. The chickenpox vaccine, also called varicella vaccine, is one of the regular childhood shots — and kids are able to avoid the effects of the chickenpox disease. Now, you may wonder why your child should get the vaccine when you may have simply had an itchy rash during your childhood bout with the chickenpox. Most cases of chickenpox are mainly a few days and nights of fever, headache, stomachache, itching and scratching. While the vaccine does protect against these symptoms, it really is given to avoid the more severe cases of chickenpox.. Not only can chickenpox cause blisters on the skin, but also on the throat, eyes, genitals and anus. While less common, chickenpox can also cause pneumonia, encephalitis (brain inflammation), myocarditis (heart inflammation) and, in rare cases, death. Unfortunately, when healthy people get chickenpox, we do not know who will get a severe case and who will get a more mild case.. The groups we do know are at highest risk for severe chickenpox disease are newborns, pregnant women, people with chronic disease or taking steroids or on chemotherapy, and all adults in general.