Douglas Bayne joined the Merritt Athletic Club in downtown Baltimore about five years ago, but he hasn't exactly been a gym rat..  .  "I work out for two weeks and I'll take off for eight months," the 38-year-old social worker said..  .  So like many other Americans, Bayne resolved to get healthy in 2012. He spent New Year's Day at the gym, hopping onto the treadmill for a 60-minute walk. He hopes to gain energy and improve his health as approaches "the big 4-0," he said..  .  "I don't feel as healthy as I used to feel," Bayne said. "I have become the biggest couch potato.".  .  January is the busiest time of year for gyms, but for many people, consistency is a struggle. Some of the regulars at Merritt on Sunday afternoon said they notice that new members' enthusiasm for the gym seems to wane only a month or so after Jan. 1..  .  Steve Shavitz, who's been working out for decades, said it seems that many people don't take the time to figure out what kind of exercise they will enjoy..  .  "People get on the rowing machine because they think they have to," said the 65-year-old, who works out up to two and a half hours a day. "But they don't like it. … Then they fade away.".  .  At Merritt, January is so busy at the gym that it's a "black out month" — sales staff can't request days off, said Karen Codd, a lifestyle consultant who sells memberships..  .  About 85 percent of people who join a gym do it because they want to lose weight, she said. But for many overweight people, it's intimidating to get started..  .  "Even when people hear from the doctor that they are morbidly obese or overweight, it's very, very scary to walk into a gym," she said. "I always say there's somebody in here who's in worse shape than you are.".  .  Merritt regular Uhmar Alston, 45, joined the gym in 2006 to improve his health. Now, he does high-impact aerobics and resistance-band exercises with a trainer three times a week, and works out on his own another three days a week..  .  "What I advise people to do is to have a purpose for [working out] other than superficial purposes," said Alston, an executive assistant, "not to look good for other people.".  .  Exercise has helped him deal with stress much better than he used to, he said..  .  "I don't call it a resolution," Alston said. "I call it a life change.".  .  Ricky Mason, a 24-year-old dental student, joined the gym about a year ago. In 2012, he hopes to get into more of a routine with his workouts..  .  Regular exercise "is a new year's resolution every year," said Mason, who was working off a New Year's Eve meal of McDonald's fries, a McDouble and a McChicken..  .  .  .  