Is there anything better than a one-dish dinner? Like . —which allow you to toss all the ingredients in a recipe on a baking sheet, then throw it in the oven—one-dish meals can be prepared using just one pot or skillet. In other words, you don't need to dirty multiple sauce pans or break out your blender, food processor, or spiralizer (although we did make an exemption for recipes with one small prep bowl). The result? Hearty, healthy one-dish wonders that are easy to prep, packed with good-for-you nutrients, and create minimal mess. They're ideal for busy weeknights, or anytime you don't feel like sacrificing your clean kitchen in the name of dinner. And because they're so easy to pull together, you won't be tempted to order greasy takeout..  . This meat-free one-skillet dinner (it's delicious for breakfast, too) is full of yummy fall flavors like kale, butternut squash, and ground nutmeg. The crispy egg on top adds a boost of protein, while grapeseed oil keeps it heart-healthy. . Unsalted butter, sweet onion, garlic, lacinto kale, kosher salt, black pepper, butternut squash, ground nutmeg, grapeseed oil, eggs. : 282. Once you make this healthy, flavor-packed vegetable pad Thai recipe, you'll swear off the greasy takeout version for good. Plus, it takes just 25 minutes to get on the table, making it about as efficient as delivery. Technically you'll need to spiralize the squash, which involves using another gadget, but it's easy to do that ahead of time to make your weeknight prep even easier.. Peanut butter, lime juice, soy sauce, ketchup, ginger, crushed red pepper, yellow squash, carrots, peanuts, bean sprouts. 359. Packed with flavor and tons of veggies (it calls for mushrooms, carrots, snow peas, baby bok choy, and red bell peppers, but you can throw in anything else sitting in your crisper drawer), this stir-fry dish will quickly become a family favorite. To bulk it up, add some cooked rice or rice noodles into the mix.. Low-sodium soy sauce, mirin, rice vinegar, toasted sesame oil, sriracha, cornstarch, grapeseed or coconut oil, cremini mushrooms, red bell pepper, carrots, snow peas, scallions, baby bok choy, ginger, garlic, shrimp, toasted sesame seeds. 285. If you're craving breakfast for dinner, look no further than this one-skillet shakshuka dish. It's healthy, hearty, and packed with flavorful spices like ginger, cumin, and curry powder along with filling eggs. Fair warning: it's spicy! Serve plain yogurt on the side for anyone who wants to cool things down..  Eggs, yellow onion, mild harissa, garlic, curry powder, honey, ground cumin, ginger, crushed tomatoes, scallions.  182. This one-bowl vegetarian chili recipe is packed with good-for-you veggies like carrot and kale. Even better, it gets a protein boost from both beans and quinoa, so it's as filling as it is nutritious.. Olive oil, white onion, large carrot, celery, cannellini beans, ground cumin, kosher salt, low-sodium vegetable broth, Lacinto kale, uncooked white quinoa, chopped fresh oregano.  224.  . As far as frittatas go, this one is anything but ordinary: kale, mushroom, and Manchego upgrade it with savory flavors and plenty of good-for-you nutrients. Mushrooms offer a great source of fiber, zinc, folate, and vitamin D, while leafy green kale provides calcium, protein, and iron..  Cremini mushrooms, garlic, kale, eggs, Manchego cheese, black pepper, salt.  228.  . A fish dinner usually requires lots of different plates, but not this one-dish wonder. Bok choy, carrots, and mushrooms keep it packed with veggies so you can fill up on vitamins and protein. And a little bit of sake adds an unexpected kick. But as you cook it, go light: a gentle simmer in sake is all you need to infuse the delicate fish with flavor..  Avocado oil, mushrooms, salt, scallions, carrots, bok choy, pepper, ginger, garlic, sake or white wine, chicken or vegetable broth, soy sauce, mirin, halibut or sea bass, sesame oil.  330. Cilantro, spinach, and zucchini create a hearty yet healthful one-dish pasta meal. The best part? It's only 324 calories per serving, but has 63 mg of calcium and 11 grams of protein. Not a fan of cilantro? Trade it for parsley..  Unsalted butter, extra-virgin olive oil, yellow onion, anchovy fillets, ground turmeric, pearl couscous, low-sodium chicken broth, salt and pepper, zucchini, baby spinach, fresh cilantro. 324. In addition to lean protein, this one-bowl turkey chili recipe packs some serious nutrient power, thanks to sweet potatoes. They're loaded with vitamins A and C, plus fiber, iron, and potassium..  Olive oil, ground turkey, red onion, green bell peppers, garlic, sweet potato, canned chipotle pepper in adobo sauce, tomato paste, Belgian white ale (such as Blue Moon), unsalted chicken broth, low-sodium red kidney beans, kosher salt, smoked paprika, cider vinegar.  261.  . Egg recipes make classic one-dish meals, and this one is no exception. The takeout favorite is packed with protein and veggies, and takes just 20 minutes to whip up. Don't have broccoli slaw on hand? You can sub in thawed frozen stir-fry vegetables instead.. Eggs, grapeseed oil, broccoli slaw, scallions, ginger, garlic, black pepper, tamari or soy sauce, sesame oil.  264. This recipe takes only 15 minutes to make, but has a perfect savory flavor. And with 328 calories, it's better for you than delivery..  Refrigerated pizza dough, fontina cheese, rosemary, new potatoes, rosemary, turkey bacon, Parmesan cheese.  328. Prep this pasta dish on the weekend, and then stick it in the oven as soon as you get home. Rich in antioxidants, but low in fat, this dish also reheats like a dream..  Olive oil, zucchini, onion, carrot, corn kernels, basil, all-purpose flour, low-fat milk, low-fat cottage cheese, Parmesan cheese, ground nutmeg, no-boil lasagna noodles, part-skim mozzarella cheese.  346. The tart flavors of the Granny Smith apples blend with the bitter spinach to make a tender chicken recipe. It's a little low on fiber, so add a piece of multigrain toast to complete the meal..  Vegetable oil, boneless chicken breast, garlic, spicy brown mustard, apple cider, Granny Smith apples, baby spinach.  202. Get lean protein, plenty of veggies, and a serving of heart-healthy fat in this quick dish. Baking the fish in parchment paper keeps it from drying out and locks in the delicious flavor..  Parchment paper, halibut fillets, pesto, carrots, zucchini, olive oil, dry white wine.  253. This spicy Tex-Mex casserole combines all your favorite Southwestern flavors in an easy dish. Though it only contains 330 calories, you'll get more than 20% of your daily calcium and 4 grams of fiber..  Poblano chiles, cooked chicken breast, reduced-fat cheddar cheese, corn kernels, onion, zucchini, red bell pepper, fresh cilantro, cumin, paprika, garlic, salsa, baked tortilla chips.  331. The use of unsalted butter and low-sodium broth make this recipe perfect for those watching their salt intake. But the real treat is savoring each bite of this creamy, crunchy meal..  Broccoli crown, turkey, unsalted butter, onion, pre-sliced mushrooms, all-purpose flour, turkey broth, dry sherry, heavy cream, Parmesan cheese, almonds.  320. Go Mediterranean with this delicious one-skillet supper. The red pepper flakes and garlic add flavor to the shrimp, while the artichoke hearts and tomatoes complete the savory dish..  Olive oil, shrimp, red pepper flakes, garlic, tomatoes, parsley, paprika, quartered artichoke hearts.  233