If all the excitement surrounding the Los Angeles Marathon inspires you to lace up your running shoes, check out these upcoming races around Southern California.. • OC Marathon, May 6 (www.ocmarathon.com/). This race takes runners through Newport Beach, Costa Mesa, Santa Ana and other Orange County locales. There's also a half-marathon. . • Kaiser Permanente Pasadena Marathon, May 20. The event includes a half-marathon, 10K and 5K runs, a 26.2-mile bike tour and a kids' run that travel through the city's historic districts. . • San Diego Rock 'n' Roll Marathon, June 3. The relatively flat course is known for being one long party, with runners dressed in costume and bands providing entertainment along the route. A half-marathon and a two-person half-marathon relay are also options. runrocknroll.competitor.com/san-diego. • Santa Barbara Pier to Peak Half-Marathon, Sept. 2. Start at Stearns Wharf and climb to 3,996 feet to La Cumbre Peak while catching some great views of Santa Barbara. http://www.runsantabarbara.com/pier_to_peak.html. • Camp Pendleton Heartbreak Ridge Half Marathon, Sept. 8. This isn't your average race — a good 90% of it takes places on gravel through the hills of the Marine Corps base. Kids can try the 1K Fun Run. . • Catalina Island Conservancy Half Marathon, Sept. 29. Outstanding views of Catalina Island and the Pacific Ocean are the draw of this race. . • Long Beach International City Bank Marathon and Half-Marathon, Oct. 7. Runners begin and end in downtown Long Beach. In between, they race past the ocean, Marine Stadium, Blair Field and Cal State Long Beach. There's also a half-marathon course. runlongbeach.com. • Los Angeles Rock 'n' Roll Half Marathon, Oct. 28. This loop course begins and ends in downtown L.A. and features live bands. runrocknroll.competitor.com/los-angeles. • City of Santa Clarita Marathon, Nov. 4. Runners in the marathon and half-marathon will navigate newly opened trails by San Francisquito Creek, while shorter races loop through the community. . • Catalina Island Eco Marathon, Nov. 10. Runners traverse the hills and rugged terrain of the island's interior. A 10K race is also an option. 