Less clear is whether such a measure can drive down eating disorders, which are thought to afflict some 7 million American women and 1 million American men, and as many as 2% of Israeli girls ages 14 to 18.. The Israeli measure would ban the use of models on catwalks or in advertising destined for the Israeli market if they "look underweight" or if their body-mass index falls below 18.5 — the . . If Israeli media outlets alter photographs to make models appear thinner, the measure requires them to disclose that fact.. Rachel Adato, the Israeli lawmaker who sponsored the bill, said this week that she hoped it would help to bring Israeli women's and girls' notions of beauty more in line with what is attainable, and thereby drive down eating disorders.. University of North Carolina eating disorders specialist Cynthia M. Bulik gave "unequivocal kudos" to the provision that requires media outlets to disclose their graphic alteration of women's bodies, saying there are "no downsides" to letting girls and women know that these pictures "do not reflect real women's bodies.". "The visual effect is so powerful and such a dangerous lure for girls and women who feel like they have to match this societal thin ideal," said Bulik, author of ". Bulik cautioned, however, that using BMI to identify models with eating disorders is an imperfect strategy, since not all women who are underweight suffer from anorexia nervosa or bulimia, and not all who suffer from those eating disorders is underweight.. Columbia University psychiatrist B. Timothy Walsh, a leading expert on eating disorders, also praised the measure and predicted it will influence women's and girls' body images. He added that the measure may provide needed protections for models from unhealthy work conditions.. But Dr. Walsh said that while changing the shapes of models seen in magazines and on TV is a "constructive goal," it may do little to reduce eating disorders among girls and women.. At the same time, Walsh said that by "normalizing" media depictions of women's bodies, "it'll presumably reduce the pressure for girls and women to achieve unrealistically low weight and therefore to engage in unhealthy diets". While that may not drive down eating disorders, said Walsh, "it should reduce disordered eating" — a pattern of eating that is unhealthful, if not pathological.. This post originally identified Cynthia M. Bulik as an eating disorders specialist from Duke University.