But if the president had been brave enough back then to call a tax a tax, his healthcare law might not be in such a mess today.. It turns out that was a big mistake. As we now know, there's one thing Americans hate even more than taxes, and that's being ordered around by their government.. Early in the debate on the healthcare law, polls found that most Americans were willing to pay higher taxes in exchange for universal health insurance. But Obama had promised during his presidential campaign that he wouldn't raise taxes on the middle class, and a healthcare tax would have broken that vow.. To answer such questions, government lawyers have emphasized that healthcare is a special case — and it is. Already, the government requires hospitals to care for the sick even if they can't pay, something it doesn't do for other goods or services. (You can't get free broccoli at a grocery store no matter how hungry you are.). Given that healthcare is different, the government has argued, an individual mandate is a practical necessity. An insurance pool can't work if only the sick sign up because it would be unaffordable. So there has to be some kind of incentive for healthy people to participate.. Insurance companies have proposed the idea of a limited "open enrollment" period each year, coupled with harrowing warnings about how much your healthcare will cost if you suffer an accident without coverage. That would make it impossible for sick people to game the system by buying insurance on their way to the emergency room.. That's why the administration pulled out all the stops this week in arguing that the current law's mandate, however imperfect, is constitutional.. The president's lawyer even argued that while the mandate's penalty isn't a tax, the court should consider it a tax — or, at least, an exercise of the government's "taxing power," if that would help.. If the administration wins, it will be a case of legal double-talk being richly rewarded. If the administration loses, its biggest domestic achievement could be in ruins. It would have been simpler to fess up and call the mandate a tax from the start.