Zucchini may be at the back of the alphabet, but it's at the front of our minds when it comes to summer vegetables.. This miracle squash is so easy to grow, you can easily end up with a bumper crop. But don't let it go to waste—it has lots of vitamin A, few calories, and it's simple to cook.. Here are 26 ways to cook zucchini (including two zucchini bread recipes!) in dishes that range from sweet to savory to spicy.. Your first stop? Zucchini bread. There's no saying no to this classic treat—it's light, moist, and contains the perfect amount of sweet. And, you can throw in a handful of walnuts to give your bread just a touch of crunch.. For only 150 calories per serving, this is a dessert you can indulge in.. Take advantage of zucchini's vibrant green color, and work it into bite-size appetizers like these crunchy rounds. Topped off with sun-dried tomatoes and goat cheese, they'll look almost as good as they taste.. Each mouthful of this savory starter promises a ton of flavor for very few calories (86 for three zucchini rounds).. These light, sweet muffins are perfect for breakfast, a snack, or an after-dinner treat. Developed by Health.com's Healthy Eating blogger, Jenna Weber, they look good, taste good, and are good for you.. Make them at the end of summer to use up all of your extra zucchini. You can even make a double batch and save some in the freezer.. This colorful summer salad packs a lot of flavor, considering how few ingredients and how little of your time it requires.. And, you'll get an added kick of vitamin A from the fresh basil.. Use the peeler lengthwise rather than horizontally to create long, beautiful green and yellow ribbons of squash.. If you're looking for a crispy summer snack, try making these Parmesan-encrusted zucchini fries.. The secret to their light, lean taste? These squash strips get breaded and baked, instead of thrown into a deep fryer.. And, you can lower the cholesterol content by ditching the yolk and using only egg whites.. Put a twist on classic zucchini bread by taking a turn toward savory. And don't stop there—diced red bell peppers and hot chili flakes will lend this Moroccan-spiced zucchini bread some spice, while roasted pistachios will add a big crunch.. This zesty bread has less than a gram of fat and only 76 calories per serving.. If you're planning on serving salsa or guacamole, you should consider serving this instead. It has much less sodium than salsa and contains a lot less fat than traditional guac. Plus, each serving is only 62 calories.. With a total prep and cooking time of less than 20 minutes, this veggie medley is a keeper!. This summer spaghetti dish is light, flavorful, and packs a lot of spice! And, you don't have to feel guilty about indulging—the zucchini-filled meal clocks in at only 5 grams of fat per serving.. Use whole-wheat pasta to up your fiber intake.. Pair your zucchini with other summer veggies you probably already have on hand, like tomato and corn, and toss them into the oven.. This light summer entrée will leave you with tons of crunch and color. Plus, baking this dish means you'll get a delicious crisp without the added fat of frying.. Don't have all day to spend over a hot stove? Try these cheesy, flavorful, zucchini-filled quesadillas.. They're so easy to put together, you can even cut time and do it in the microwave!. If you're a meat lover, add your favorite lean protein to the mix.. Meet the perfect zucchini dish for summer company—it's easy to make, full of flavor, and meat free.. Perfect for brunch or lunch, this cheese-covered combo is sure to be a crowd-pleaser. And with its no-hassle recipe, you can spend time with your friends instead of in the kitchen.. Low in cholesterol, fat, and saturated fat, this recipe is a win-win for both your heart and your waistline.. With a prep time of just 10 minutes (and cook time of 40 minutes), this makes an easy midweek meal.. With high-fiber barley and vitamin B12, and vitamin D–rich shrimp, this recipe is a home run.. This recipe is easy and low in cholesterol, so it's heart healthy. Plus, it delivers a dose of fiber (thanks to the white beans) and healthy monounsaturated fat, thanks to the olive oil.. This recipe earns the right to be called .  lasagna. It calls for 3 1/2 cups of zucchini, in addition to a host of other veggies and herbs—including onions, carrots, and fresh basil—you might find in your garden or at your local farmers' market.. Bake your zucchini to perfection with this recipe for veggie-topped, crunchy pizza.. And don't worry about blowing your diet with a slice—one serving is only 142 calories, and packs 5 grams of protein.. These bright-green creations make the perfect appetizer to serve at a cocktail party.. Full of flavor and zest, .  are sure to impress guests, especially when you confess that each serving is only 80 calories.. It's hard to believe that this delicious dish takes less than 20 minutes to create—and that you'll get a chicken cutlet and serving of zucchini and couscous sauté for only 233 calories.. To add some extra fiber, use whole-wheat couscous.. Fresh homemade pesto will complement your zucchini in these green-on-green roll-ups.. And adding toasted pine nuts won't just give you crunch and flavor—they're full of fatty acids that are good for your heart and burn belly fat.. Shredded zucchini mixed with carrots lends a slightly sweet flavor to this omega-3-packed fish dish.. You can swap out halibut for another lean protein like cod or striped bass.. Got one medium zucchini? This recipe will eat it up. Add asparagus, broccoli florets, and green peas and you have a delightful summer dish that's quick and easy to make.. If you love Mexican food, these tostadas will give you that great flavor in a dish that's healthy—and tasty—for just about anyone, including people with diabetes. If you have two small zucchini, it's the perfect recipe to use them up.. This sweet-and-salty dish is win-win: You'll get vitamin A from the zucchini, and tons of heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids from the salmon.. Add a side of brown rice for a boost of fiber.. This colorful creation can be whatever you want it to be, from the perfect vegetarian entrée for company to a fun way to get children to eat veggies. Or, you can skip the cheese and serve this stack as a vegan dish.. Plus, one of these veggie towers and a serving of couscous will fill you up for only 309 calories.. Staying in town all summer, and feeling stir-crazy? Let your palate travel with this seafood dish inspired by the flavors of the Mediterranean.. Each serving is packed with 31 grams of protein, so it'll keep you full.. Use up your summer veggies, and get your fill of calcium, vitamin C, and fiber too. Each serving contains 23 grams of protein for only 230 calories.. This cheesy, easy-to-make dish is sure to be a crowd-pleaser.