Should you take Vitamin D supplements to prevent colds and shorten the misery?. Like .  about the benefits of vitamin D, it seems like a reasonably good idea. After all, some lab studies suggest vitamin D might enhance immunity. And as everybody knows, people are more prone to respiratory infections during winter, when they cover up and get less vitamin D-generating sunlight.. The authoritative Institute of Medicine thought the notion was plausible enough to recommend more research on the possibility in its otherwise .  on vitamin D and health almost two years ago.. But a well-done study found zero difference in the incidence or duration of upper respiratory infections among 161 New Zealanders who took a hefty dose of vitamin D versus an equal number who took a fake pill. Participants were monitored for 18 months — longer than in previous studies.. The results .  in . , the . .. Dr. Jeffrey Linder of Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston says in an accompanying editorial that the findings suggests vitamin D should join the list of 13 other common-cold nostrums considered by the .  as ineffective, questionable or possibly harmful.. Those include . zinc, steam inhalation, vitamin C, garlic, antihistamines, Chinese herbs, intranasal corticosteroids, intranasal ipratroprium (an asthma drug), extract of . (a South African plant), nasal irrigation, extra fluid intake or antiviral drugs.. The vitamin D results are disappointing, Linder notes, since Americans suffer around a billion upper respiratory tract infections every year — three for every man, woman and child.. By the IOM's reckoning, the new study leaves a solid basis for vitamin D supplements only for bone health. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force earlier this year .  of that.. The IOM Report recommends most children and adults consume 600 to 800 international units of vitamin D a day and get their blood levels of the active form, 25-hydroxyvitamin D or 25-OHD, to at least 20 nanograms per deciliter.. In the new study, volunteers who got the real vitamin D pills received 100,000 IUs per month, or about 3,300 units a day. That's more than five times the recommended daily allowance for adults.. The supplements increased volunteers' blood levels of 25-OHD from 29 (a near-normal level) to 43. Participants who achieved higher blood levels didn't do any better, in terms of frequency or severity of colds.