Medicare, the federal health insurance program for about 50 million senior and disabled Americans, is simultaneously one of the most popular and imperiled programs in America.. Its participants — and their relatives — tend to .  with the generous health benefits it provides. But some 78 million baby boomers are now .  for the program at a rate of an estimated 10,000 every day.. The .  earlier this month in Denver had an entire segment devoted to the subject of health care. And it's almost certain to come up in tonight's debate in New York.. But it wasn't the 2010 health law that the candidates brought up first in the last debate. It was Medicare. Specifically, each candidate went after what he saw as the weaknesses of the other candidate's plan.. Here's what President Obama had to say:. Romney countered with a critique of what President Obama's health law would do to Medicare:. Independent fact checkers, including . , .  with exactly how the candidates described each other's plans. But the outlines are basically accurate.. President Obama's plan fundamentally relies on . .. Romney, meanwhile, would dramatically . . He'd change it from one that's largely run by the federal government to one that's largely run by private insurers.. "I know my own view is I'd rather have a private plan," he said in the debate. "I'd just as soon not have the government telling me what kind of health care I get. I'd rather be able to have an insurance company. If I don't like them, I can get rid of them and find a different insurance company.". But the bottom line is that both candidates are walking a political tightrope. On the one hand, says Drew Altman, president and CEO of the . , it's Medicare, not the health law, that could help turn the election. That's what the foundation's .  found.. "The voting issue in this election, if health care is a voting issue, is much more Medicare than it is the Affordable Care Act," Altman says.. And seniors are important — not only because they .  than other voters, but also because they're a key voting bloc in swing states like Florida and Ohio.. But Altman says the same poll last month that found seniors are making Medicare a voting issue also found something else — that they pretty much like Medicare the way it is now.. "The verdict is very clear, especially with seniors," he said. "They're anxious about changing the traditional program.". Now a prudent politician would say, "OK, let's just not touch Medicare." After all, they don't call it one of .  for nothing. But that's no longer an option, not with those 10,000 baby boomers turning 65 every day for the next two decades.. "We as a society are not willing to put the resources in to let Medicare go along as it's going along," says Jonathan Gruber, a health economist at MIT and an architect of both the health plan passed by .  under then-Gov. Romney and the Affordable Care Act. "To keep Medicare solvent over the long run would require taking the current Medicare payroll tax, which is about 2.9 percent, and taking it up to 12 percent or more of payroll. And we're just not willing to do that.". That means that Medicare spending will have to be reined in somehow. Gruber says he likes the way the .  — with a variety of approaches. They include not only reducing some payments to health care providers but also experimenting with ways to provide financial incentives for higher-quality care.. "It's a balanced approach," Gruber says. "It's basically saying, 'Look, there's lots of different things we need to do for Medicare to make it work better. We don't really know which one is the ultimate long-term solution. But we need to move forward.' ". GOP candidate Romney, meanwhile, says he prefers the power of the marketplace.. "This is an idea that's been around a long time," he said at the debate, about the concept known as . , "which is saying, 'Hey, let's see if we can't get competition into the Medicare world so that people can get the choice of different plans at lower cost, better quality.' I believe in competition.". But clearly when it comes to Medicare, both candidates also share the belief in using it . , in an effort to scare seniors. That's something that's been true for several elections now, and it's shown no sign of changing this year, either.