Researchers largely agree that about half of Americans are probably not getting enough vitamin D from the places we've traditionally gotten it: food and sunlight. And that's a problem because vitamin D keeps calcium from leaking out of our bones; too little vitamin D can also be a factor in kidney disease and skeletal problems.. Public health institutions have debated how much is enough, and when to add supplements to the diet. Two years ago, the IOM .  that having about 20 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL) of vitamin D in your bloodstream was sufficient (about 600 units per day). Meanwhile hormone specialists at the Endocrine Society .  consumers to stick with the old cut off: 30 ng/mL. Doctors aren't sure whose rules to follow.. A new .  supports the IOM guidelines for a lower minimum vitamin D requirement vitamin D supplements. The study,. led by . , a nephrologist at Loyola University Medical Center, found that mortality rates don't change much whether you have levels of 20 ng/ML or 40 ng/ML in your bloodstream on a daily basis.. Kramer's findings, out this week in . , also suggest that supplements may not necessary for the 80 million Americans who meet that 20 ng/mL level, and taking a bigger pill could be overkill. (Check with your doctor to see if you qualify.). "There are a huge number of people who lie in that border zone," says Kramer.. Kramer and her colleagues came up with the conclusion after examining 18 years of vitamin D level data from 14,002 people who didn't have kidney disease and 1,097 people who did, using the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, or . . Then they checked it against mortality statistics from the same years: 1988 to 2006. They also factored in age, gender, race, smoking status, medications that could influence vitamin D levels, and the individual's history of cancer, heart disease, or stroke.. Based on measured vitamin D blood levels, the researchers put people in six groups ranging from less than 12 ng/mL or less to more than 40 ng/mL. Then they crunched the numbers on mortality rates. Surprisingly, mortality rates didn't change significantly for people with vitamin D levels between 20 to 40 ng/mL.. "We know that being very, very deficient is bad, but I think the body can make up for low vitamin D levels up to a point," says . , a nephrologist and associate professor at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York. That point seems to be around 20 ng/mL.. So is more vitamin D really better? Probably not. Supplements have also been linked to a higher risk for .  and .  and .  cancers.. "The enthusiasm for vitamin D is outpacing the evidence," says . , an endocrinologist at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston who heads the . , a clinical trial of 20,000 people looking at whether high levels of vitamin D can prevent cancer, cardiovascular diseases, and other illnesses.. "Potentially, it's sort of like Goldilocks," says Melamed. "Not to little, not too much, just right."