Yoga and Pilates are the missing ingredients in many fitness plans, the ideal complement to cardio and strength work. Here, just in time for the holidays, are four convenient, space-saving innovations and the timeless gifts of flexibility and postural alignment.. Pilates gear: In the Dec. 8 Saturday section, two photos with an article about yoga and Pilates equipment were switched. The photo with the item about the PeakPilates PilatesStick Basic Kit Package, a door-mounted exercise system, was actually of the Empower Pilates Studio, a portable Pilates trainer. The photo with the Empower Pilates Studio description was of the PeakPilates PilatesStick Basic Kit Package. —.  Ring-shaped, 7.6-by-33-inch cotton towel that can be used as a mat carrier, yoga strap and towel..  It's a multitasking, space-saving wonder — ingeniously simple, stylish and functional. The efficient loop configuration allows you to cinch it to a rolled-up mat almost instantly and use it as a strap during yoga positions, as well as keep dry..  If it had a pocket, it could also store your gloves and booties..  $45. (877) 964-4824; yogahitch.com.  Portable Pilates trainer that includes a 3-foot-long padded bar with two handled stretch cords attached. A three-workout DVD is included..  A great workout, especially for the price. The DVD, directed by aerobics legend Gin Miller, includes about 20 exercises, including side-lying leg lifts, double leg pulls, bridges, V-ups, arm curls and overhead presses. You definitely feel your core struggling to keep hands and feet in line, due to the stretch cords not being anchored to a fixed point (as they are with the Pilates Stick, reviewed here). To increase the resistance, just roll the bar to take up slack on the stretch cord. The two-section bar assembles/disassembles in two seconds, making it portable enough for travel..  I would have paid $5 more for a carry bag and spiral-bound exercise book with all the possible exercises, rather than a folded-up piece of paper with just six exercises on it..  $24.95. (800) 704-5561; .  Doorjamb-mounted exercise system that allows many Pilates-style exercises. System includes a 26-inch-long, 1.25-inch-diameter wooden stick with padded hand-holds, 5.5-foot-long stretchable Slastix tubing, two foot straps, a ground pad and an hourlong workout DVD..  A variety of fun and challenging leg and upper-body strength and stretching exercises, done laying down, kneeling, and standing with and without the stick. To increase resistance of the Slastix cords, move farther from the door. A bag holds the mat and the stick, using the Slastix as the carry strap.. The fold-out wall chart displays only a dozen exercises; for the price, I think a dedicated manual with dozens of exercises should be included..  $149.95. (800) 925-3674; .  Traditional foam yoga block with an added internal handle to position the wrist for upper-body movements..  Very functional and effective, allowing for additional exercise options. Along with standard block uses (assisted toes touches and squeeze-between-the-knees situps and leg lifts), they allow for deeper dips, pushups and chatteranga..  None.  $19.95 (one block). (708) 960-4855; 