What's more fun: getting hold of some of the coolest new athletic technology, or giving it as a gift? You could end up buying two of each of these noteworthy innovations..  A 2-ounce, 3-D Bluetooth motion sensor that attaches to any golf club and instantly shows you a video animation and metric analysis of your actual golf swing, so you can identify problem areas and make adjustments. Images are stored for later viewing..  It works, showing you what your swing looks like and providing valuable analysis, including your swing speed, whether the swing was inside-out or outside-in or whether the club face was open or closed. It can be used with or without a ball and on or off the course. Pro tips are provided too. Setup is simple; download the app, set up a profile and password at swingtip.com, then instantly clamp the 2-inch-long sensor and around a club shaft. 5.1 or higher Apple iOS or 2.3 Android or higher is required..  Although our tester loved the concept, he felt that the recording function was too limited. Instead of labeling each swing with the specific club used (i.e., a 9 iron versus a 4 iron), you are given a choice of the categories "wood," "iron" or "driver." The problem: You swing each club differently. So when you get back home, replay your swings and see "1:31 pm iron," it doesn't help you much if you can't remember what club you were using..  $129.99. .  Sunglasses that have a stealthy, hidden 8-megapixel video and still camera built into the bridge..  A great idea, ingeniously executed. A very stylish, natural, unobtrusive place for a camera. You don't have to stop to fish out equipment. The control buttons are simple and effective — one for video and one for stills, each a simple on-off. The 1080p HD MP4 format video is fine quality, with decent stills despite a soft focus. It records at 30 frames per second. A mini-USB port connects to your computer for charging..  This camera really needs a fisheye lens for a wider field of vision; its standard 75 degrees is not enough. I found that I was looking down at the ground too much while mountain biking and trail running, and even after I learned to keep my head up, there still wasn't enough sky in the frame. The 8 GB capacity is quite small; you run out of storage very quickly. Another design flaw is that the blue on-off light and flashing red video light, which are located on the left arm, were not visible to my eye. I had to pull the sunglasses forward to see them — a hassle. Of course, you can't view the video until you load it on your computer.. $299. (646) 588-1137; .  Skin-tight, moisture-wicking, anti-odor nylon-Lycra athletic shirt that uses reinforced shoulder and back fabric panels to improve posture by pulling your shoulders back and allowing you to achieve a more natural, vertical, non-kyphotic posture..  Simple and effective. The reinforced panels exert some rearward pull on shoulders. The styling looks good enough to wear in the gym and comfortable enough to wear as a base layer. Note: The shoulder pull seems to be much less pronounced than that of a competing product, AlignMed, which was favorably reviewed in this column two years ago (it lets you use Velcro straps to yank your shoulders rearward)..  There's no real science backing the company's assertions that the product reduces athletic injuries and stimulates muscles (but it does feel good)..  $95 (tank), $100 (T-shirt), $105 (long sleeve). (949) 797-2813; .  The first-ever device that calculates your cycling power output from your heart rate and a "secret" algorithm, all at a fraction of the cost of a standard power meter (which measures the force you put on the pedals and can run $1,200 to $2,000). Includes a chest strap, which you pair with your own compatible bike computer..  Although not able to provide moment-by-moment accuracy, as with a true power meter, PowerCal provides a good approximation of your power output over an entire workout. The algorithm uses your heart-rate variation and actual heart rate to come up with a power value. It is ANT+ compatible, simple to set up, easy to use and displays real data in real time. I love that you can use it on your road bike, mountain bike or on a spin bike at the gym, allowing relative comparisons..  Cannot accurately measure short, hard efforts, such as surges or intervals, like a true power meter..  $99. (800) 783-7257, 