 Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) undergoing treatment with agents such as Enbrel (etanercept), Remicade (infliximab) or Humira (adalimumab) appear to have a significantly increased risk for developing . .. The incidence of shingles among patients on anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) treatment was 1.6 per 100 patient-years, compared with an incidence of 0.8 per 100 patient-years among those receiving traditional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs), according to Kimme L. Hyrich, MD, of the University of Manchester in England, and colleagues.. Because this was an observational study, cause and effect could not be established with certainty, the authors cautioned.. Still, after adjustment for potential confounders such as age, sex, disease severity and duration, and comorbidities, the hazard ratio for shingles among RA patients on anti-TNF therapy was 1.7, they reported in the February . Patients with RA are at elevated risk of many types of infection, both because of their underlying disease and their immune modulating therapies. But there has been little focus to date on infections of the skin and soft tissues, the authors stated.. So Hyrich and colleagues analyzed data from the British Society for Rheumatology's biologics register, which began enrolling patients in 2001 and included 11,881 recipients of anti-TNF therapy.. This analysis included only the original three anti-TNF agents, etanercept (Enbrel), infliximab (Remicade), and adalimumab (Humira), and infections occurring during the first 3 years of treatment.. A cohort of 3,673 patients treated with conventional DMARDs served as controls in comparisons of rates of serious soft tissue infections, all cases of shingles, and cases of severe shingles.. Serious infections were those necessitating hospitalization or intravenous antibiotics or that resulted in death.. Severe shingles were cases that were multidermatomal and those requiring hospitalization or parenteral antiviral treatment.. Patients receiving anti-TNF therapy were younger than those taking DMARDs, and had more joint involvement, worse disability, and longer disease duration.. A total of 269 serious skin and soft tissue infections were reported in the anti-TNF group, along with 39 in the DMARD group.. The majority of episodes were . , and staphylococci were most often involved, but four cases of necrotizing fasciitis occurred in the anti-TNF group.. The median duration of hospitalization was 5.5 days for anti-TNF patients and 5 days for DMARD patients.. However, risks for these skin and soft tissue infections cannot be completely ruled out, the researchers noted.. They also looked at risks for serious skin and soft tissue infections in association with the individual anti-TNF agents and found a lower risk for adalimumab.. Among the 320 cases of shingles overall, 21 were severe, with 20 being in the anti-TNF cohort.. These severe cases included five that were multidermatomal and six with ocular involvement in the anti-TNF group, while the sole severe case among patients receiving DMARDs was ocular.. The risk of both serious skin and soft tissue infections and shingles was higher during the early months of treatment.. During the first 6 months of treatment, 71 skin and soft tissue infections occurred in the anti-TNF group compared with three in the DMARD group.. The findings of this study "should encourage clinicians to be vigilant for skin infections in patients starting anti-TNF therapy," the researchers observed.. The CDC has recommended the anti-shingles vaccine (Zostavax) for individuals over 60, but not for patients taking anti-TNF therapy, so physicians should consider administering the vaccine before initiating this treatment, according to Hyrich and colleagues.. Limitations of the study included its observational design, minimal information about corticosteroid exposure, and the possibility of additional confounders.. "While the observational design has important limitations, the data presented here reflect real-world experience of anti-TNF therapy in [RA] in the U.K., without patients having to fit the strict selection criteria often applied by randomized controlled trials," the researchers concluded.. Source: 