If you haven't caught the flu yet or don't know someone who has, you might want to buy a lottery ticket today. You're one lucky person.. , "from the Rocky Mountains to New England, hospitals are swamped with people with flu symptoms." More than 40 states report "widespread" outbreaks. The flu's been blamed for the deaths of at least 20 children, the AP adds.. "We are into what would classically be described as a flu epidemic," Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institutes of Health, . .. It's far from over, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr. Thomas Frieden . . "Usually, flu peaks in January or February," he told host Audie Cornish. "We don't know when the peak will be, but it looks like it's certainly started sooner, and the peak may go higher this year than most years.". About the only good thing we can report is that CNN says the spread of the flu may have slowed in some parts of the South and Southeast. Those are the regions of the nation that got hit first, and for them the worst may be over.. Experts say that if you haven't gotten vaccinated, there's still time — though it will take a couple weeks for the shot to have its desired effect and you may find it hard to find a pharmacy or doctor's office that can give you a shot. .  that "an early, severe flu season and higher-than-anticipated demand have resulted in some shortages of vaccine, setting off a last-minute scramble in the Washington area and nationwide, according to health officials, doctors and retailers.". To keep from getting and spreading the flu, the . :. For ongoing coverage of the flu season and other health issues, . .. As we said above, there is a bit of good news. .  that for the week ended Jan. 5 "influenza activity remained elevated in the U.S., but may be decreasing in some areas." Officials caution, however, that the holiday season makes it more difficult to collect data. So, those places might report next week that the flu is spreading again. According to the agency, "47 states reported widespread geographic influenza activity.". The CDC also says that "between Oct. 1, 2012 and Jan. 5, 2013, 3,710 laboratory-confirmed influenza-associated hospitalizations were reported. This is a rate of 13.3 per 100,000 population.". Only the "far west coast" — primarily California — is relatively unaffected, the CDC says.