 An abnormal protein associated with .  appears to accumulate in the submandibular glands, opening the way for the first good lab test for the condition in living patients.. In a pilot study, nine of 11 patients with established Parkinson's disease diagnoses had phosphorylated alpha-synuclein in biopsy samples taken from the submandibular gland.. The study, conducted by Charles Adler, MD, PhD, of the Mayo Clinic in Scottsdale, Ariz., and colleagues, is scheduled to be reported here at the American Academy of Neurology's annual meeting in March.. Adler told .  in a telephone interview that the two patients without positive findings were not necessarily false negatives. He pointed out that clinical symptoms — currently the only way to diagnose Parkinson's disease in living patients — are not the gold standard for diagnosis of the condition.. It can only be diagnosed definitively at autopsy, he said. Previous studies have shown that, when checked against autopsy findings, clinical diagnoses are only about 80 percent to 90 percent accurate..  can have a variety of causes, with actual Parkinson's disease — the progressive death of dopaminergic neurons in certain brain regions — being just one.. Consequently, Adler said, an accurate diagnosis would have important clinical implications, as well as benefits for research on the condition.. Invasive, expensive .  such as deep brain stimulation and gene therapies would ideally be given only to patients with actual Parkinson's disease. Moreover, patient selection for clinical trials of therapies for the illness would be improved if people with conditions misdiagnosed as Parkinson's disease could be weeded out.. Earlier research led by Adler and Thomas Beach, MD, PhD, of Banner Sun Health Research Institute in Sun City, Ariz., had shown that phosphorylated alpha-synuclein selectively concentrates in the submandibular salivary gland in Parkinson's disease patients.. That prompted additional studies, including the one to be reported here, on whether biopsy samples from the gland could be used as a clinical diagnostic.. In the current study, Adler, Beach, and other researchers recruited 15 patients who had lived with Parkinson's disease diagnoses for at least 5 years (mean 12).. Submandibular biopsy samples turned out to be inadequate in the first four patients enrolled, prompting a change in the sampling method to collect more tissue. In the succeeding 11 patients, samples from nine showed extensive staining for the abnormal alpha-synuclein protein.. The minor salivary glands were also biopsied. Most of these samples were negative for the protein.. The test's specificity in living patients still remains to be evaluated, Adler said.. However, in a separate study presented at another conference last year, the group found that postmortem needle-biopsy samples of frozen submandibular salivary glands from 38 individuals without Parkinson's disease — including some with Alzheimer's disease as well as individuals without neurological diseases — were uniformly negative for the protein, whereas all samples from 26 Parkinson's disease patients were positive.. Adler told .  that his group hadn't looked at whether the abnormal alpha-synuclein protein is also present in saliva. But he thought it would be unlikely, since the protein is mainly found in nerve fibers that, even within the salivary gland, are somewhat remote from the saliva-producing cells.. Source: 