 Let’s get one thing straight: January Jones is not Betty Draper Francis, the character she plays on AMC’s drama . .. For one thing, Betty is a bored housewife whose maid knows her kids better than she does; Jones is a working actress raising a 6-month-old son by herself. And while Betty rarely ever ingests anything except cigarette smoke and vodka, Jones sticks to a healthy diet of actual food (Betty would never!), tea, and .  — including some made from her own placenta.. Yes, you read that right.. Jones recently revealed to .  that after giving birth to her son, Xander, she had her placenta dehydrated, ground up, and then encapsulated in pill form by a doula. “It’s something I was very hesitant about, but we’re the only mammals who don’t ingest our own placentas,” she explained to the magazine, adding that she credits the pills with helping her bounce back and get back to work after her . . “It’s not witch-crafty or anything! I suggest it to all moms!”. In fact, placenta supplements are part of a growing trend of placentophagia, or . . Last summer, .  even published a piece about it called “The Placenta Cookbook,” which detailed the history and practice of eating afterbirth, both in pill form and in placenta-based recipes. (One woman claimed she used a blender, a banana, and some coconut water to make a placenta smoothie; another couple toasted their new family with pieces of placenta jerky.). So what’s the deal? Is afterbirth some kind of new culinary adventure? Not quite. According to the article, placenta supplements “are said to alleviate postpartum depression, aid in breastmilk production and lactation, act as a uterine tonic, and replenish nutrients lost during pregnancy.”. “There is certainly a potential medicinal use,” ABC News quoted David Katz, MD, founder of the Yale Prevention Center, as saying last year. “This is a time-honored cultural practice of eating the placenta. It is nutrient-rich and a source of hormones.”. Indeed, placenta has long been recognized in other societies for its potential healing powers and spiritual significance. In traditional Chinese medicine, for example, dried placenta is mixed with herbs and then ingested to treat infertility and lactation issues, among other things. And in Indonesia, Morocco, and the Czech Republic, some new moms believe that placenta-eating guarantees future fertility.. Unfortunately, there’s no sound science to support any of these claims, says Mark Kristal, PhD, a behavioral neuroscientist at the University of Buffalo who has been studying placentophagia for 40 years.. “It’s a New Age phenomenon,” Kristal told . . “Every ten or twenty years, people say, ‘We should do this because it’s natural and animals do it.’ But it’s not based on science. It’s a fad.”. That’s not to say the health benefits of placenta couldn’t be real, however — just that they haven’t yet been proven. In fact, Kristal and colleagues just published a paper in the journal .  calling for more research on the subject. They point out that placenta ingestion by non-human mammals seems to increase mother-infant interaction and even facilitate caretaking behavior, both of which could be medically relevant with regards to . . As of now, though, no studies exist to prove these benefits in humans, and until they do, Kristal says, there’s no real scientific reason for new moms to ingest their own placentas — despite Jones’ ringing endorsement.. "People will do anything," Kristal said in a press release about the paper, "but we shouldn't read too much significance into reports of such exceptions, even if they are accurate, because they are neither reliable nor valid studies. My own studies found no evidence of the routine practice of placentophagia in other cultures.. "The more challenging anthropological question is 'Why don't humans engage in placentophagia as a biological imperative as so many other mammals apparently do?'” he added. “Perhaps for humans, there is a greater adaptive advantage to .  eating the placenta."