 — Weight, .  (BMI), and body fat percentage are all need-to-know numbers for anyone trying to watch their weight, and now, a pair of new studies is adding one more must-know digit to the list: your zip code.. It turns out, where you live may have a profound impact on your weight, no matter your age. A new study conducted at the Seattle Children's Research Institute and published in the .  found that a child's zip code may have a direct impact on their likelihood of being overweight. Researchers found that children living in neighborhoods with favorable attributes, such as walkability, high-quality parks, and access to . , had a 59 percent lower chance of being obese.. For purposes of the study, researchers assessed the nutrition and physical activity environments in neighborhoods in Seattle and San Diego. Supermarket availability and the number of fast-food restaurants were key attributes for the nutrition environment component. To assess the physical environments researchers considered factors related to the neighborhood's walkability and the number of parks.. The results of the analysis were telling: Almost 16 percent of kids who lived in areas with poorer nutrition and physical activity environments were obese  — close to the national average. In neighborhoods with positive nutrition and physical activity environments, only 8 percent of children were obese. According to statistics from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, California has some of the highest childhood obesity rates in the nation while Washington State's obesity rates are lower.. “People think of childhood obesity and immediately think about an individual’s physical activity and nutrition behaviors, but they do not necessarily equate obesity with where people live,” said Brian Saelens, PhD, a professor of pediatrics at the University of Washington and the lead researcher on the study, . . “Everyone from parents to policymakers should pay more attention to zip codes because they could have a big impact on weight.”. The zip code-weight correlation isn't just for kids: A new French study found that shopping in discount supermarkets is associated with higher weight. The study, which was published in the online journal PLOS One, followed 7,131 people shopping in more than 1,000 Paris supermarkets. On the whole, researchers found that people who shopped certain discount supermarkets had higher BMIs and waist circumferences than people who stuck to more high-end or organic stores.. Researchers also found a strong interaction between education levels and grocery-store choice. Both discount stores and greater body weight were correlated to shoppers with lower levels of education.. This doesn't mean that it's impossible to find healthy food at a discount store, but it does mean consumers need to be more aware of supermarket marketing techniques that offer unhealthy food at deep discounts in prominent locations throughout the store. To avoid being tempted by bargains, head to the store with your healthy shopping list in hand and stick to it. If you are trying to eat . , buy whole foods, such as plain oatmeal, beans, frozen vegetables, and raw nuts, in bulk. Buy in-season fresh produce, which is typically less expensive, and stock up on cheap protein options, such as . .