 Taking steps to beat cancer could mean literally taking steps, according to a new study published in the . .. Researchers at the Thomas Jefferson University School of Nursing in Philadelphia report that patients who participate in a regular walking regimen after surgery for .  may experience fewer symptoms of fatigue and pain than their less-active peers..  is a common and very serious problem for people with cancer, affecting up to 96 percent of survivors, says the National Cancer Institute. “Sometimes it’s overlooked as normal, and people tend to write it off,” study author Theresa Yeo, PhD, said in a press release about the research. “But this is not the normal ‘I-stayed-up-too-late’ fatigue. It’s really being exhausted, and it doesn’t go away with sleep. It hits patients in their daily activities — simple things like doing your personal hygiene in the morning, getting up and getting dressed, going from the bedroom to wherever you eat breakfast.” It’s debilitating, sometimes to the extent that the person affected develops depression or anxiety, which can in turn hinder his or her . .. Conventional thinking says that if you’re tired, you should rest, but experts say the opposite may be true, even — or perhaps especially — for people being treated for cancer. To test this theory, Dr. Yeo and colleagues recruited more than 100 survivors of pancreatic or periampullary cancer (cancer that forms near the ducts connecting the liver, pancreas, and small intestine). After controlling for other factors — such as age, race, chronic conditions such as hypertension or diabetes, and stage at diagnosis — the team randomly assigned each participant to one of two groups. The first group was discharged from the hospital with standard care instructions that did not include recommendations for exercise. The second group was put on a program that involved walking for increasingly long intervals each week for three months, beginning with 20-minute walks and then eventually working up to 90 to 150 minutes of walking time a week. Anyone experiencing discomfort or shortness of breath was told to slow down or stop.. “The beauty of this program is that we’re not asking for high-intensity aerobics or a target heart rate,” Dr. Yeo said. “It’s low to moderate intensity, and [people] can sit if they need to. They don’t have to push through it if they are not feeling well that day.”. Researchers checked in with patients each month to gauge their adherence to the program, their levels of fatigue and pain, and whether they had any other symptoms, such as diarrhea, insomnia, or depression. They also asked individuals to keep logs of their walks.. When the study started, 85 percent of patients had moderate to severe fatigue. Three months later, however, those in the walking group had experienced a 27 percent improvement in their condition, compared with 19 percent improvement among the control group. The walkers also reported feeling less pain than the non-walkers.. “The message in .  has typically been that these patients are just too sick to do this, but that’s not true anymore,” Yeo explained, adding that walking is something almost everyone can do, regardless of their fitness level or resources. “With increased surgical expertise and the use of postoperative critical care pathways [also called care maps], more patients are feeling better sooner and going home earlier after their operations. There is no reason that patients can’t become active, even if they did not exercise before.”