For years, medical researchers have debated the existence of the G-spot. Some naysayers have even ignored women who were certain the G-spot was real because they themselves had experienced G-spot orgasms. However, medical research has finally confirmed what these women have known all along: The G-spot is real…and it’s wonderful.. The research was performed by Adam Ostrzenski, MD, PhD, who just published the results in an article in the . . Dr. Ostrzenski, of the Institute of Gynecology in St. Petersburg, Florida, did his research in Poland, where he was able to locate and measure the G-spot on a female cadaver. Ostrzenski stated that he “confirmed the anatomic existence of the G-spot, which may lead to a better understanding and improvement of female sexual function.”. For the millions of women who have enjoyed .  and G-spot orgasms, the results of the research are hardly a surprise. However, just because it exists doesn’t mean that it is always easy to find: In fact, many women and men don’t know how to locate the G-spot.. The G-spot is located in the lower distal, one-third of the way into the vagina. If a woman is lying down on her back, then it is on the belly-button side, meaning that if you insert your finger into your vagina and make a “come hither” motion, you will be able to feel it. It’s a small, rubber-like spongy area, and some women compare its consistency to the tip of their nose. Most women find that stimulating this area can cause them to feel as if they have to urinate, but in a few moments, that feeling passes and is replaced by feelings of pleasure.. A .  is different from a clitoral orgasm, which occurs outside the vagina (the canal itself) but inside the vulva and above the opening of the urethra. (The vulva is the correct name for the entire female genitalia, interior and exterior, including the vagina.) However, it is possible to have a G-spot orgasm and a clitoral orgasm at the same time, and this is known as a blended orgasm. There are sex aids that are built to stimulate the G-spot and the clitoris at the same time, and these can help you to achieve the blended orgasm, or you could try positions such as man-from-behind that stimulate the G-spot, while manually stimulating the clitoris as well.. Although G-spot orgasms and blended orgasms are enjoyable and wonderful, it may not be a good idea to prefer one type of orgasm over another. Women already have a hard time when it comes to judging their bodies and their sexuality, so studies such as these can make women who haven’t enjoyed G-spot exploration feel as though they are missing something or as though they aren’t sexual enough. Of course, this isn’t the case, and everyone has different preferences in the bedroom. I always say that an orgasm is an orgasm, meaning that whether it comes from the clitoris or the G-spot or manually or through intercourse, it’s always enjoyable. No matter how the movies make it seem, accomplishing orgasm is different for everyone and it often isn’t as easy as simply having .  for a few minutes. Great orgasms take exploration and effort, but it’s effort that is enjoyable and rewarding.. While the existence of the G-spot might not be “news” to millions of women who have already enjoyed G-spot orgasms, the truth is that research on female anatomy and sexuality is far behind that of men, and therefore anyone actively researching this area is worthy of praise in my book.