 Few would argue with the statement that . . Between the long hours of classroom and prep work, a growing mania for teacher accountability tied to standardized tests, and frequent villainization by politicians and the press (not to mention dealing day in and day out with unruly students), teachers’ .  can take a beating.. And while some teachers may blow off steam and recharge by going salsa dancing, training for triathlons, or playing in rock bands, a new study by researchers at the University of California, San Francisco suggests a novel approach for those looking to find psychological succor and zap stress: . .. The UCSF study, published in the April issue of the journal . , found that teachers who participated in an eight-week intensive meditation course were less stressed, . , and depressed. What’s more, after beginning to meditate, the teachers were also more compassionate and empathetic to others.. The study was conducted by a team of psychologists who wished to analyze the effects of meditation on emotions. Previous studies have linked the practice with improvements in such things as metabolism, . , and blood pressure, but less is known about its emotional impact. Working with researchers from other universities, the UCSF team recruited 82 female teachers, aged 25 to 60, who had no previous meditation experience. According to a press release published on UCSF Web site, the subjects completed 42 hours of instruction involving three areas of meditative practice: “sustained, focused attention on a specific mental or sensory experience”; “mindfulness practices involving the close examination of one’s body and feelings”; and finally, “practices designed to promote empathy and compassion toward others.”. In what could only be described as a slam dunk for proponents of meditation, the study found that after the course the teachers showed improved understanding of the relationship between their thoughts and emotions, and were able “to better recognize emotions in others and their own emotional patterns so they could better resolve difficult problems in their relationships.”. UCSF psychologist Margaret Kemeny, lead author of the study, noted in the university’s release that further research is needed on meditation’s long-term emotional effects, “particularly once the ‘glow’ of the experience wears off,” as she puts it.. Yet Kemeny is upbeat about her team’s initial findings of meditation’s beneficial influence on emotional behavior. And not just for teachers, either. “The study is particularly important because opportunities for reflection and contemplation seem to be fading in our fast-paced, technology-driven culture,” she says in the release.