 For patients with type 2 diabetes, the first line of defense is metformin, the medication that's typically prescribed, along with diet and exercise, to help control blood glucose levels. More than 90 percent of the time, a person with diabetes will most likely be given .  initially, unless they have renal failure, acute heart failure, or liver insufficiency, says Serge Jabbour, MD, director of the division of Endocrinology at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia, Pa.. But when metformin fails, another class of medications, called glucagon-like peptide-1, or GLP-1, which can help control blood sugar levels in diabetes patients. GlaxoSmithKline, Britain’s biggest drug maker, is asking for U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) approval for a new, once-weekly GLP-1 medication called albiglutide. If it is approved, it will be joining three other drugs in that same class: Victoza, Byetta, and Bydureon. The drugmaker said they would make a similar submission in Europe soon, . .. While it would be good to have another option, says Spyros Mezitis, MD, PhD, an endocrinologist at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City,  questions remain: “How is it going to be administered? Is the .  How is this going to replace other medications in terms of price? It’s another diabetes injectable drug and it remains to be seen how it’s going to be used in a crowded market.". GLP-1 medications work by replacing a chemical in the intestines that helps process and absorb sugar since those with diabetes don’t have enough naturally occurring GLP-1 in their bodies. The drugs work indirectly to trigger insulin, through the intestines rather than the pancreas, where the body normally produces insulin.. The three other drugs that work similarly to albiglutide are Victoza, which is a daily injection, Byetta, a twice a day injection and Bydureon, which is injected once a week, like albiglutide.. Mezitis estimates 10 to 20 percent of his patients with diabetes are on GLP-1-type medications.. While insulin is the most direct treatment for those with type 2 diabetes, he explains, it has serious side effects like weight gain, and can also lead to low blood sugar by pumping the body with too much insulin. “GLP-1 medications are a step before insulin for those with severe diabetes, and a step after trying pills [like metformin] first,” Mezitis says.. A big benefit to using some of the GLP-1 class of medications is that they can be administered less frequently than insulin.. “Insulin needs to be administered a few times a day,” says Mezitis, but a drug like Bydureon, or the new medication, require just one injection a week.. Convenience is important, but GLP-1 medications do have some side effects that patients should be aware of. While some weight loss is a positive side effect, because GLP-1 meds can suppress appetite, they can also cause nausea, vomiting, and intestinal pain in some people. Despite that, Jabbour says they can be a good second choice in certain cases.. “If someone fails metformin, this can be a great option,” he says.. “Albiglutide could help some patients because at least we have another options,” Jabbour adds. “We have Bydureon, but not all patients do well on it — no drug works 100 percent."