 — Obese children run an almost doubled risk of developing three or more physical, mental, or emotional conditions such as asthma, . , and depression when compared to normal weight kids, according to new research from the University of California, Los Angeles. Likewise, the risk rate for these conditions is 1.3 times higher for overweight kids.. As the rate of childhood obesity in the United States has climbed in recent years, so too have the rates of coexisting health conditions, referred to as co-morbidities, that arise in childhood. Though past studies were limited in sample size and geographically specific, new data published in . outlines a much larger test population for a more in-depth, nationwide understanding of the .  and co-morbidity in children.. "This study paints a comprehensive picture of childhood obesity, and we were surprised to see just how many conditions were associated with childhood obesity," said lead study author Neal Halfon, MD, MPH, pediatrics, public health, and public policy professor and director of the Center for Healthier Children, Families and Communities at UCLA, in a press release.. Using the 2007 National Survey of Children's health (which gathered data on 43,300 children between 10 and 17 years of age), researchers reviewed statistical correlations between weight and overall health, health disorders, and psychological and socialeffects among children, of which 15 percent were considered overweight and 16 percent were classified as obese.. In addition to reports of asthma, ADHD, and depression, scientists also found that obese kids showed:. "The findings should serve as a wake-up call to physicians, .  of the risk for other health conditions associated with childhood obesity so that they can target interventions that can result in better health outcomes," added Dr. Halfon in the release.. According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, childhood obesity has more than tripled in the past 30 years. And .  estimated that about 30 percent of children and adolescents aged 2 to 19 were obese or overweight.. However, some blame the spike in childhood obesity, as well as the lack of screening and prevention strategies, on the ever-changing physical and social environments through which today's youth maneuver.. "Obesity might be causing the co-morbidity, or perhaps the co-morbidity is causing obesity — or both might be caused by some other unmeasured third factor," said Halfon. "For example, .  might change the neuroregulatory processes that affect impulse control seen in ADHD, as well as leptin sensitivity, which can contribute to weight gain. An understanding of the association of obesity with other co-morbidities may provide important information about causal pathways to obesity and more effective ways to prevent it."