Sure, eating meals as a family provides a . . Research shows it boosts kids' grades, leads to healthier eating habits, and (believe it or not) helps relieve parental stress. But making time to prepare, cook, and sit down to a delicious dinner can be difficult, especially when each family member has a busy schedule of his and her own. That's where these easy recipes come in to play. They require minimal prep, so you can spend dinner chatting it up with your loved ones—not slaving over the stove. . Whether you're serving up a braised fish meal full of vitamins and antioxidants or dishing out a kid-friendly favorite (hello, pizza!), these 26 recipes have a few things in common: they're easy to prepare and packed with flavor. Plus, we offer enough pizza and pasta dishes to keep the kids happy, yet offer interesting twists on old favorites will appeal to moms and dads, too..  . Get your antioxidant on with this flavorful veggie dish. Pearl onions are chock-full of quercetin, an antioxidant that promotes healthy blood pressure and protects against cortisol release when you’re stressed. Besides offering these benefits, this onion recipe provides a tangy side dish to accompany your favorite cut of meat or another protein.. Unsalted butter, olive oil, pearl onions, chicken broth, sherry vinegar, raw honey, black pepper, chives, salt.  119.  . Sick of boring broccoli? Switch up your side dish game with this braised two-veggie dish instead. Shallots, garlic, and oregano add a flavorful kick to a combination of carrots, fennel, and protein-packed chickpeas. This dish tastes even better a day after cooking, so it’s the perfect make-ahead option for busy weeknights..  Fennel, carrots, shallots, chickpeas, harissa, garlic, white wine, chicken or vegetable broth, lemon juice, couscous, parsley, oregano, avocado oil. 218.  . Infuse Asian flavors into your dinner with this fish recipe that includes soy sauce, ginger, and garlic. Bok choy, carrots, and mushrooms keep the meal veggie-dense so you can fill up on vitamins and protein. And a little bit of sake adds a kick to the low -fat recipe..  Avocado oil, mushrooms, salt, scallions, carrots, bok choy, pepper, ginger, garlic, sake or white wine, chicken or vegetable broth, soy sauce, mirin, halibut or sea bass, sesame oil.  330. For a satisfying, hearty meal, try this braised chicken served alongside brown rice or baby red potatoes. The salty flavors of capers and Kalamata olives make this chicken dinner anything but average. Plus, it only takes 35 minutes to put together.. Chicken leg quarters, salt, pepper, avocado oil, yellow onion, bell peppers, capers, garlic, orange zest, red wine, diced tomatoes, kalamata olives, Italian seasoning, bay leaves, parsley.  422. This isn’t your typical veggie dish. For a versatile vegetable that goes well with chicken, pork, or fish, try this braised Belgian endive. It can be served hot immediately after you prepare it, but tastes just as yummy at room temperature the next day..  Olive oil, unsalted butter, Belgian endive, salt, pepper, low-sodium vegetable broth, raw honey, lemon juice, nutmeg.  137.  . Satisfy your sweet tooth with this fruity, tropical dessert. Pears pack a vitamin C-filled punch and promote heart health. Top this warm and gooey dish with toasted coconut or almonds for a crunchy add-on..  Unsalted butter, pears, coconut palm sugar, salt, coconut milk, sliced coconut or almonds.  276