 Former New York Giants linebacker and NFL Hall of Fame member Harry Carson remembers the dark days of feeling hopeless and, even, suicidal.. It was long before .  dominated the news.  It was before people thought much about how repetitive head injuries would affect the mental health of football players.  It was a time when athletes could not admit freely that they did just did not feel right.. But a study released by the Academy of Neurology, confirms that retired football players who have had concussions can be prone to depression.. “Midway through my career with the Giants I realized I would have these dark periods where I would feel a sense of depression envelope me,” Carson says, his tone soft-spoken and kind, a far cry from the aggression he was known for on the field. Carson’s depression didn’t really make sense to him at the time.  As the “indestructible” inside linebacker for the New York Giants, he was a star athlete and an icon-in-the-making.  He served as team captain for 10 of his 13 seasons (1976-88) and helped the Giants defeat the Denver Broncos and win Super Bowl XXI in 1986. Still, back then, he could not seem to stabilize his mood or feel happy.. “I’d be sad for no reason and I couldn’t really share it with people. If I was to tell someone I’m depressed, then the next words out of their mouth would be, ‘Why would you be depressed? You’re a pro football player and you’re making gobs of money and got all this fame and what do you have to be depressed about?’ So, I kept to myself, then I realized there were times where I’d get really low.”. Depression got a hold of him so strongly that he thought of driving himself off a bridge.  “I was driving across the Tappan Zee Bridge every day to practice at Giants Stadium,” he recalls. “There were one or two times when I had this thought of accelerating as I got on the bridge and just sort of going through the guard rail.”. Thoughts of his baby daughter kept him from acting on the impulse to harm himself. Soon he would find ways to rise above his depression, turning to inspirational books and trying to make his life as positive and active as possible. By 1990, he had a diagnosis — Post-Concussion Syndrome. Symptoms include depression, as well as anxiety, irritability, mood swings, change in personality, anger, impulsiveness, and loss of judgment. Carson says he had all those and more.. Athletes often refer to their .  as “dings.”  Back in Carson’s day, if you weren’t knocked out, you got up and got back into the game.  He estimates he had between 12 and 18 dings in his career. He has no doubt that his depression and other symptoms are direct damage from playing football.  “And as a defensive player,” he reflects, “I was also the one giving those concussions out.”. Carson has been speaking out publicly on .  for many years. He considers it his way to bring awareness to what was once a hidden subject and to give other players who are dealing with these challenges a voice. He is glad to see the ways in which science is catching up to explain the . .. The Academy of Neurology study released today confirmed the correlation between concussion and depression in . . Headed by researcher Nyaz Didehbani, PhD., of The Center for Brain Health at the University of Texas at Dallas, the sample group included 34 retired athletes who had experienced between one and 11 concussions. They ranged from 41 to 77-years-old, the average age being 61. Together they represented 23 teams in the NFL.. The group received standard psychological testing for depression and a full neuropsychological battery. Of the 34 players in the sample group, 12 had mild to moderate symptoms of depression.  Didehbani says that many of the participants agreed to partake “because they wanted to know what was going on of them.”. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates there are 1.6 to 3.8 million sports injuries each year and it is known that cognitive problems and mood disorders can result from sports concussions and other traumas. However, according to the American Academy of Neurology, there has been very little research into the enduring effects of injuries and depression and other symptoms that may emerge long after a player has hung up his .  and shoulder pads.. “Most of these guys did not realize their symptoms were related to depression — loss of energy, loss of appetite, change in sleep habits,” Didehbani says. “They thought it was related to being athletes.”. This group will also be followed longitudinally, and they are currently in year two. This way the researchers will be able to monitor their progress, and their challenges, as they age.  “We are raising the awareness that men do not have to fear the diagnosis,” says Didehbani. “It’s treatable — if they get help.”. This study, and two others from the American Academy of Neurology, was released within a week of the findings of the autopsy examination of Junior Seau that determined he suffered from Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy. It may seem like a sudden burst of .  but Carson says the positive part in all this is that people are beginning to take notice in a different way.. “These stories have been around but had it not been for Junior Seau committing suicide this story would have been hush-hush because they just looked at as football players who squandered their money and took their own lives," says Carson, who was inducted into the NFL Hall of Fame in 2006. “This is a subject whose time has come. There are probably . , and those with other neurological diseases or conditions. Nobody really paid attention because once a guy dies, he’s gone.”. “The suicide of Junior, a guy who was so youthful and vibrant — with such a great smile — opens the eyes of people and gets people to stop and think of what’s really going on.”