If you’re like many people, most nights after dinner, you get a craving for a little something sweet. But a chronic sweet tooth - an increasing problem for Americans, who are conditioned to crave sugar because of constant exposure from processed foods - isn’t just bad for your teeth or your waistline. More and more research links excessive sugar intake to serious health issues, including . , blood pressure, . , and dementia.. So how much sugar is too much sugar? The amount your body can metabolize is slightly different for everyone, but the American Heart Association recommends no more than 6 teaspoons of added sugar a day for women - less than the amount of sugar in a single 12-ounce can of non-diet soda - and no more than 9 teaspoons a day for men. A 2009 survey by the American Heart Association found that adult Americans consume an average of 22 teaspoons of added sugar daily, mostly from soft drinks. You can calculate the number of teaspoons of sugar you're getting per serving of a particular food or drink by taking the number of sugar grams in one serving as listed on the product's nutritional label and dividing it by four.. Once you’re in the habit of eating too much sugar, it becomes harder and harder to stop. “Sugar addiction is a real phenomenon,” says Nicole Avena, PhD, a food addiction researcher and assistant professor of neuroscience at Princeton University. “Research indicates that changes to brain chemicals after sugar consumption are similar to changes seen after drug use, and constantly overeating sugar leads to addiction and . .” Sugary foods and drinks activate the “reward” centers of the brain, which lead to more cravings for the sweet stuff.. The issue isn’t limited to obviously sweet snacks like candy and soda - it’s also the sugar added to processed foods that don’t even .  sweet, like ketchup and salad dressing, and also those found within white starchy foods like pasta and bread.. So how do you know if your hankering for sweets is harmless, or if you’re consuming an unhealthy - and possibly addictive - level of sugar?. Jacob Teitelbaum, MD, author of . , is an internist who studies sugar addiction and has identified four types of sugar addicts:. “Constant anxiety, fatigue, and constant sugar cravings are all signs of an addiction,” Dr. Teitelbaum says. “There’s no one amount of daily sugar that is a sign of sugar addiction, it all depends on whether a person feels poorly and exhibits the symptoms of the four types of sugar addicts. At that point, it’s time to figure out your addiction type and how you can treat it.”. If you’re constantly turning to sugar for an energy boost or craving a sweet treat, Teitelbaum says you can typically treat your addiction by drinking more water, . , eliminating soda, and sleeping more. Some addicts are triggered by stress, so identifying and eliminating the source of your stress is key. If you’re suffering from a hormonal imbalance, you might want to talk to your doctor about hormone therapy or supplements.