As the gluten-free diet has become something of a trend and a marketing angle over the last decade, gluten-free varieties of packaged foods have hit grocery-store shelves, and even chain restaurants now offer options that don’t contain gluten.. For people with . , a genetically based autoimmune disorder, this has been good news, as the only treatment for celiac disease is a medically prescribed diet free of .  — the protein found in wheat, rye, and barley. Wider availability of gluten-free foods is also helpful for people with non-celiac gluten sensitivity, who also want to follow a gluten-free diet in order to avoid gastrointestinal distress.. But as gluten awareness has increased, so has the idea that going gluten-free, even for people who can tolerate gluten, is healthier. There are plenty of anecdotal accounts from people who haven’t been tested for gluten sensitivity who claim to feel better and more energetic once they go gluten-free, or even just reduce their gluten intake. A gluten-free diet may result in some initial weight loss (depending on the rest of your diet); and in general, closer attention to what you eat will likely lead to smarter, more informed food choices. But current evidence tells us that going gluten-free when you don’t .  to isn’t necessarily better for you.. A .  looked at the risk for heart disease and metabolic syndrome among people without celiac disease who followed a gluten-free diet. Researchers found that while there was an association between those on the diet and lower . , there was no significant difference in risk for heart disease and metabolic syndrome.. And according to . , long-term consumption of gluten was not associated with a risk for cardiovascular disease; the study’s authors also noted that gluten-free diets should not be recommended for heart disease prevention in people without celiac disease.. A gluten-free food is any food that does not contain any element of wheat, barley, or rye. These grains, which are basic ingredients in most breads and pastas, are obvious sources of gluten. But gluten may also be hiding in sauces or soups if one of those grains is used as a thickening agent. If you’re serious about following a gluten-free diet, you will also have to cut out soy sauce and malt products, such as beer. Keep in mind that even health supplements may contain nonobvious gluten products.. Despite what you may have heard, going gluten-free doesn’t simply mean cutting out wheat-based pastas and breads. And it’s not the same thing as a low-carb diet, says . , a dietitian based in Manchester, Massachusetts, who specializes in celiac disease and the gluten-free diet. Such diets can include several forms of nonwheat carbohydrates, including rice-based products, corn-based products, and naturally gluten-free grains such as teff, amaranth, millet, and quinoa.. A truly gluten-free diet requires vigilance and is not easy to maintain, but it’s a must for people with celiac disease, which is diagnosed with blood tests followed by an intestinal biopsy.. Approximately 1 percent of Americans have celiac disease, but most people who have celiac disease have not been diagnosed, according to . . “Some people who feel better on a gluten-free diet may actually feel better because they have celiac disease,” notes Thompson. “People who have this disease really want to be diagnosed because they want to have the help they need to make sure the diet is being followed the way it should be followed.”. Nonceliac gluten sensitivity is more difficult to diagnose. “It remains what we call a diagnosis of exclusion,” says Thompson. “If an individual doesn’t have celiac disease and they don’t have an allergy to wheat or barley but there’s still a suspicion that they have some type of negative response to gluten or wheat, then they can be trialed on a gluten-free diet to see whether their symptoms resolve. If they resolve on the diet, then it may be the case that the individual is gluten-sensitive.”. If you suspect you have gluten sensitivity, it’s extremely important to get tested . going on a gluten-free diet. “If you do have celiac disease, you want to know. If you have celiac disease, your diet needs to be a strict one,” says Thompson. And diagnostic tests may not be accurate once a gluten-free diet is already being followed; you must be tested while you are still eating a nonrestricted diet.. If you’re simply curious about following a gluten-free diet — and don’t need to be on a strict one for medical reasons — it’s worth considering what you can and can’t expect to gain from it.. If you’re thinking of including gluten-free foods in your or your . , you may not realize exactly how much care you must take to prevent “cross-contamination,” even while cooking . .. “Cross-contamination can happen in a variety of places in your home,” says Thompson. It’s important, she notes, to store gluten-free food separately, if not in a designated cupboard, then at least on a shelf above wheat-based products. “Crumbs can fall, and it’s far better for the gluten-free crumbs to fall on the gluten-containing products rather than vice versa.” Always wash your utensils thoroughly and use separate utensils when preparing food. For example, if you are making gluten-free foods like pasta for yourself and “regular” pasta for the rest of your family, don’t strain them using the same strainer or serve them using the same pasta tongs. Have a dedicated toaster, if possible, and remember to clean your microwave.. But cross contact is an issue long before food even comes into your home. Cross-contamination of grains can occur in the field, during harvest, and during transport. “This is why we tell people with celiac disease that, whenever possible, they need to choose naturally gluten-free grain that is actually labeled gluten-free,” says Thompson.. There are plenty of simple-to-prepare meals that can be delicious and gluten-free, such as a meat combined with a grain (quinoa or rice) and cooked or fresh vegetables.. If you’re interested in trying gluten-free foods, avoid processed snacks and high-calorie restaurant meals and instead experiment with some of these recipes in your own kitchen:. Get more gluten-free recipes with . .