Anyone who has ever loved another human knows that relationships, even with those we adore, are far from perfect. In fact, most romantic unions are a bit like flawed jewels – they sparkle in certain light, and look dull and damaged from other angles, yet they are precious in their own way. Romantic partners have a way of bringing out the best and worst behaviors in each other.. And somehow, along with all the finer qualities, you are almost always guaranteed your partner will have a couple — or more — habits and quirks that seem aimed at driving you crazy. Along with the secure love of someone who respects and supports you, and those warm and loving arms to embrace you, there are moments of getting your emotional hot buttons pushed and feeling irritated to no end. But as best-selling author Arielle Ford (pictured with her husband, Brian Hilliard) likes to point out ...that’s amore!. Ford tackled the topic of finding true love in her best-selling book .  (HarperOne, January 2011). She is back with a new guide to help couples find creative ways to nurture their relationships by celebrating the little personality flaws that come along with the territory of true love. Her new book, .  (HarperOne, January 2012), has a very practical message: If we can learn to manage our own expectations that our mates be perfect, and find a way to accept the flaws within them and ourselves, we can find deeper joy together..  Wabi Sabi is an ancient Japanese art form that honors all things old, weathered, worn, imperfect, and impermanent by finding the beauty in the imperfections. For instance, if you had a large vase with a big crack down the middle of it, a Japanese art museum would put the vase on a pedestal and shine a light on the crack. Or they might fill the crack with 24k gold! .  applies this concept to our love relationships through stories and exercises that demonstrate how to attain groundbreaking shifts in perception so that you can embrace and find the beauty and perfection — in each other’s imperfections..  Yes, that is an important part of it. I love this quote about forgiveness by Alan Paton: “It is not ‘.  and forget’ as if nothing wrong had ever happened, but ‘forgive and go forward’ building on the mistakes of the past and the energy generated by reconciliation to create a new future.”.  Here are the sad but true facts about marriage today: 50 percent percent of first marriages, 67 percent of second marriages, and 74 percent of third marriages end in divorce. Modern day society has conditioned us to look for and seek perfection, which leads to an ongoing state of frustration and dissatisfaction. In truth, we all know that perfection is not possible. But with Wabi Sabi love we can come to appreciate our own and the other’s imperfection, and can actually experience a more natural state of grace than we thought possible..  Wabi Sabi love is an approach that allows you to learn to accept the flaws, imperfections, and limitations — as well as the gifts and blessings — that form your shared history as a couple. Acceptance and its counterpart, understanding, are crucial to achieving relationship harmony. It’s sacred love, the highest form of love, and like most things worth striving for in life it requires patience, commitment, personal responsibility, and practice..  One very important Wabi Sabi love key is this: Wear rose-colored glasses! Research by Sandra Murray, a psychologist at the University of Buffalo, reveals that putting on the rose-colored glasses and idealizing our partner actually leads to more happiness and satisfaction in a relationship. In fact, the .  focus on what’s right and not on what’s wrong. This is also known as the “Pygmalion effect,” the phenomenon in which the greater the expectation placed upon people, the better they perform. It’s a form of self-fulfilling prophecy. As mature adults, we get to choose our thoughts and beliefs, so why not intentionally expect the best out of ourselves and our partners?.  I don’t believe that you should use Wabi Sabi as an excuse for unkind, unloving or bad behavior. I am not suggesting that we go into denial. That said, it’s crucial to learn effective ways to communicate our anger and hurt in a relationship because, according to leading love researcher Dr. John Gottman, every marriage has around nine irreconcilable differences. Arguments, hurt, and frustration — it happens to all of us in all relationships. So, working through core issues is critical and you may not instantly find the “wabi sabiness” of certain behavior. None of us is, or ever will be, perfect — but striving to find Wabi Sabi brings more balance and joy to the relationship. In addition, a big dose of humor always helps!.  One of my favorite stories in the book is about a couple named Ed and Deb. Ed loves to meet new people and tell silly jokes. Deb has heard all of these silly jokes a million times and is often annoyed because while they are out and about running errands, she always ends up waiting for him while he is busy entertaining strangers. One day, after Deb found herself waiting for Ed for the third time in less than an hour — and her frustration was reaching new heights — she observed Ed befriending a lonely little boy sitting on the curb waiting for his mother. She heard Ed say to the boy, “How does a camel hide in the desert?” The boy gave him a quizzical look and then Ed delivered the punch-line: “Camelflage.” With that the boy burst into .  just as his mother approached, giving Ed a big smile. It was at that moment that Deb, after a decade of marriage, finally got Ed’s true nature. He wasn’t trying to make her crazy at all. He just wants to make people happy. And on that day Deb found the beauty and perfection in what once made her crazy. I call this being willing to go from “annoyed to enjoyed.”.  One day when Brian and I first got together I found myself ragging him out about God knows what. With my right index finger pointed in his face and my left hand on my hip, I caught myself acting in a way I’d always sworn to myself I would never behave. I was appalled and I said to him, ”The next time I get like this (and unfortunately there will be a next time) you have my permission to gently say to me, ‘When did Sheila enter the room? ‘” Sheila is my gorgeous, brilliant mother who sometimes can be a bit overbearing. Much to my surprise, Brian said “Okay, and when I get a bit too paternalistic, you can call me Wayne” (his much beloved father). In an instant we found a Wabi Sabi way to diffuse what could have spiraled into an ugly argument. And to this day we still use these code words “Sheila” and “Wayne” whenever one of us is getting a bit pushy or difficult..  Here are the three most important things I have learned:.  Yes, absolutely. We spend so much time in judgment of ourselves and others, when we could open up to finding the beauty and perfection in our own flaws and those that we interact with. Becoming a Wabi Sabi artisan allows us to live a life with more ease, flow, harmony, and acceptance. And it works in all kinds of relationships — friends, family, co-workers, and others. And when it comes to your committed relationship, just imagine how great you will feel when you know your partner loves all of you, all the time? The good, the bad, and everything in between!