
    . 
    .  to vancomycin, with or without bowel lavage, was
significantly more effective than the drug regimens alone at treating recurrent
.  infection, researchers
found.. In a small, open-label, randomized controlled trial, 81 percent of
patients treated with fecal infusion following a short-course of vancomycin had
resolution of . -related diarrhea compared with
21 percent of patients treated with a longer course of vancomycin with bowel
lavage and 31 percent who received vancomycin alone (. <0.001
for both), according to Josbert Keller, PhD, of the University of Amsterdam,
and colleagues.. 
    .  was well tolerated other than for mild diarrhea and
abdominal cramping on the day of treatment, they wrote in the Jan. 16, 2012,
issue of the . .. The authors noted that antibiotic treatment of .  infection "does not induce a durable response in
approximately 15 percent to 20 percent of patients," and that an effective
treatment against recurrent infection does not currently exist.. Their study compared duodenal infusion of donor feces following a
short course of vancomycin with standard vancomycin treatment with and without
bowel lavage in resolving diarrhea associated with .  infection in a population of 43 patients ages 18 and older
with recurrent infection after "at least one course of adequate antibiotic
therapy" and at least 3 months' life expectancy.. Participants were randomized to one of three treatment groups:
. Participants were followed to resolution of infection-related diarrhea
without relapse at 10 weeks.. Donor feces were collected on the day of infusion and diluted with 500
mL of sterile saline, stirred, strained, and kept in a sterile bottle to be
administered through a nasoduodenal tube. The tube was removed 30 minutes after
the infusion and patients were monitored for 2 hours following the
procedure.. Outcomes were recorded in participants' stool diaries and through
interviews about stool frequency and consistency, medication use, and adverse
effects at days 7, 14, 21, 35, and 70. Stool tests for the bacteria were
performed on the latter four days and on days when diarrhea occurred.. Of the 16 patients in the infusion group, 13 (81 percent) were
"cured after the first infusion of donor feces," while an additional
two were treated with feces from a different donor at days 14, 50, and 53 and
cured. One patient left the study because of a rapid decrease in renal graft
function following the infusion.. One patient in the vancomycin-only group died of complications
unrelated to drug treatment.. Infusion therapy with short-term vancomycin was considered superior to
2-week vancomycin treatment with and without lavage following the first infusion. This
difference grew following the second
infusion.. Median time to recurrence in the vancomycin-without-infusion groups
was 23 days without bowel lavage and 25 days with it. Recurrence occurred in 1
of 16 infusion patients, 8 of 13 vancomycin-only patients, and 7 of 13
vancomycin and lavage patients.. Most patients experienced diarrhea (94 percent) after receiving the
infusion; cramping (31 percent) and belching (19 percent) were seen in a
minority of patients. Additionally, three infusion patients reported
constipation at follow-up.. Patients treated with fecal infusion had significantly greater fecal
microbiota diversity after 2 weeks following treatment, "becoming undistinguishable from
the fecal microbiota diversity level of the donors.". The authors noted that the optimal protocol for fecal infusion is not
known, but that infusion of "a relatively large amount of feces ... had an
acceptable adverse-event profile and was logistically
manageable.". They also noted that the study was limited by the fact that most
patients had had numerous relapses before inclusion in the study, despite the
fact that the efficacy of antibiotics declines with subsequent recurrences.
Thus, they said, the efficacy of vancomycin "was considerably lower than
expected.". Source: 