 A 15-year-old girl in Vancouver, British Columbia, committed suicide a month after posting a YouTube video that tells her heartbreaking story of enduring . , blackmail, and abuse from classmates and others on- and offline.. In the 9-minute black-and-white video — titled "My Story: Struggling, bullying, suicide and self-harm" — Amanda Michelle Todd silently displayed hand-written notecards revealing a haunting tale of her efforts to find refuge from endless taunts, attacks, and harassment from bullies on the web and in her daily life. YouTube removed the video shortly after the young girl's death.. In the video, Todd reported that the trouble began after she became involved in webcam chats with strangers online, and a man blackmailed her and demanded she "put on a show" for him. Soon after, a photo of her breasts circulated among her classmates and friends. She said a boy at school led her on and used her for sex, and his girlfriend beat her up outside school. Todd tried to escape the bullies, changing schools twice, and moving to a different city. But the online harassment and threats persisted.. Todd said the constant attacks led her to attempt suicide by drinking bleach. She battled .  and anxiety and said she couldn't stop . . "My anxiety got worse... couldn't go out," she wrote on one sign. "I have nobody. I need someone :-(" showed another.. A photo at the very end of the video showed her razor-cut wrist, while the final image displayed her tattoo: "Stay Strong.". Since her death, both friends and strangers have turned to social media to express their sadness about her death. "Rest in paradise Amanda," a Facebook page created in memorial to Todd, already has more than 6,000 "likes.". In tribute to the young girl, British Columbia Premier Christy Clark posted a statement on YouTube. "No one deserves to be bullied, no one earns it, no one asks for it. It isn't a rite of passage," she says in the video. "Bullying needs to stop. Every child, everyone, needs to be able to feel safe at school.". Todd is one of countless teens each year who face .  from peers. Recent statistics from the i-SAFE Foundation, a nonprofit promoting Internet safety, reports that over half of all adolescents and teens have been bullied online and about the same number have engaged in cyberbullying. Additionally, at least 1 in 3 young people have been threatened by someone online.