 Fans of .  were surprised last month when star Tamra Barney announced that she wanted to have her breast implants removed. After all, the women on Bravo’s .  series are known for having work . , not . . But, as is often the case with reality TV, there was more to the story than the camera caught on film.. Barney, 43, had claimed that the implants felt “too big” for her petite frame, but as she reveals on an upcoming segment of . , her decision wasn’t motivated just by vanity.. "I had a little health scare," .  in a clip from the episode, which airs Thursday. "I [had] lumps in my breast and I had .  that had to be removed.". Cervical cancer is the third most common type of cancer among women, affecting more than 12,000 individuals a year. About two-thirds of these cases are caused by . , a common sexually transmitted infection, but birth control use, family history, and certain other habits and health conditions may also increase risk.. Barney, 43, was understandably panicked after being diagnosed — so much so that even after doctors removed the cancer, she was afraid to speak publicly about it for fear that doing so might jinx her recovery.. “CANCER is a scary word, and for the past year I felt like if I talked about ‘It,’ I would give it life and it would come back,” she wrote in a post on .  earlier this week, adding that Dr. Oz encouraged her to open up as a way to help others. “[Now] I am going in for my second 6 month check up...fingers crossed!”. Judging by her healthy appearance and good spirits on . , Barney is over the worst of the ordeal — but it hasn’t exactly been easy. Going through the experience, she says, took her from reality TV to, well, reality. "I really went through this like, 'What is going on with my body? What is going on?' I'm talking to my doctor about ... doing a . ," she tells Dr. Oz, "and I have lumps [in my breast] and I'm thinking, 'Oh my god.’ I needed to take over my body.". Removing her implants, she explains, was a way to do that. It was also a way to protect herself in the event of a future health scare, such as . . The lumps Barney had found turned out to be nothing, thankfully — but they made her think about her body and her future.. "Feeling lumps in your breast that need to be biopsied is scary and made me wonder if my implants could make it harder to detect breast cancer...and why take the chance?” she wrote on Facebook. "I love the way I look without my implants and do NOT miss them at all."