As a society, we often think of body image as a mostly female issue perpetuated by fashion magazines and Hollywood stereotypes. But in recent years, the focus has increasingly shifted toward men’s bodies, too. Male liposuction procedures are up seven percent from two years ago, high-profile guys like Charles Barkley and Terry Bradshaw are appearing in weight-loss ads for diet plans — even scientists are turning their attention to the male physique. Researchers from the Ohio State University Sports Medicine Center, for example, surveyed more than 400 male college athletes and found that one in five believed they weren’t muscular enough. Other researchers, from the University of California Los Angeles, found that well-muscled young men have more sex partners than their less-chiseled peers.. The bad news? Muscles don’t just happen overnight. Building a strong, toned, and, more importantly, healthy body takes hard work, persistence, and patience. But it can be done.. It turns out that using your head can bring the best results when working out to build up your biceps: The secret to sculpted arms lies in self-control, according to Nicki Anderson, a personal trainer in Naperville, Ill. "You can do all the curls you want, but at the end of the day if you're not lean, you won't see those sculpted arms," Anderson says.. You need to carefully control your movements, making sure to maximize each repetition when performing arm exercises. And, as importantly, you need to control your eating. You'll have to drop your body fat so that those biceps you've honed through arm exercises will really show.. When performing arm exercises, men often make the mistake of loading up too much weight on the barbell, dumbbells, or weight machine, says Anderson. That can ruin your form — and waste your effort.. "If it's too heavy, you’ll use momentum and recruit other muscles to help," she says. "Just the slightest movement of keeping the elbow more centered can make a biceps curl 30 percent more effective than if you're swinging your arm. Make sure to maintain good form while maxing out the muscle.". As Anderson points out, men who are trying to sculpt their biceps and triceps through arm exercises also need to lose body fat. That means eating right and working out the whole body, since the body doesn't target specific areas for fat loss when you're losing weight. Some .  tips include:. Anderson recommends performing 8 to 10 repetitions of each arm exercise in a single set, with two or three sets in a workout. Some time-tested arm exercises you can perform include:. Follow these instructions and use your head when building up your arms and you’ll soon see a difference — better definition in your biceps and triceps.