Valerie Miller, 48, of Sterling Heights, Mich., says too much fast food and not enough portion control pushed her weight higher and higher. In early 2010, Miller’s doctor told her that her body mass index (BMI) classified her as obese, and she knew it was time to make a change. Plus, she had an upcoming family wedding that she really wanted to slim down for. Determined, Valerie joined Everyday Health’s online community and started logging her calories with . . After more than a year of dieting with Everyday Health, she’s 50 pounds lighter, a leader of 'The Gypsies' Weight Loss challenge group on the site, and thinking of going for 10 more pounds. Here’s how she made it happen:.  My goal was to lose 50 pounds, so in September of 2010, I decided to see a nutritionist and really start my journey to get healthy. After starting with the nutritionist, I realized I needed support and ideas to help me get through the tough days. That’s where Everyday Health and the groups come in. I originally started on the site using the My Calorie Counter journal, but I decided to join a group because it seem neat that people "knew" each other and were friends. I've been on many diets in my life and have tried the buddy system. The problem with the buddy system was if my buddy fell off the wagon, she'd encourage me to follow her — and I really wasn't too hard to convince to do it.. With the Everyday Health groups, everyone can relate to what you’re going through. Sometimes, I'm able to help someone else out because I’ve gone through what they’re going through, too.. A little more than a year after I started my journey, I reached my goal, and now I’m seriously thinking of going for 10 more pounds!.  Each month, The Gypsies start a new discussion and a new spreadsheet that tracks everyone’s weight loss for the month. When someone new wants to join the challenge, they are placed on a team automatically.. The goal is to win our friendly weight loss competition, which we call the Biggest Loser. Like the TV show, it is based on a percentage of weight loss, so everyone tries to make it on the list of the Biggest Losers for the week.. All the friendship within the group I think is what helped me the most. There are times people have questions or concerns about different issues such as diet soda or sodium intake. Part of the group tried to kick the diet pop habit (I lasted three weeks) and a group worked on lowering their sodium together. We cheer each other on and give helpful tips if we have any. But mostly the group is about being accountable. Everyone anxiously awaits the weekly weigh in results to see who made the Biggest Loser list; heaven forbid if I get busy on a Wednesday and don't post the results on time!.  There are a lot of members who have hit their goal and are staying on the message boards to keep on the straight and narrow. It helps me to know that there are real people that have lost their weight and are able to keep it off. When I'm bored or want to eat something that I really don't need to be eating, I jump on EH discussion boards and keep myself occupied reading and participating in the discussions. I also get an .  from Everyday Health with articles and advice..  I work out three to five times a week. My favorite activity is the . ; it burns calories fast. I also take circuit training and aerobics classes. I'm just not athletic, but I do it because it’s good for me..  I really like peeling a ruby red grapefruit like an orange, separating the sections, peeling off the "membrane" of each section, and eating it. It takes a little while, so you have no choice but to eat slowly. It’s filling and satisfies my sweet tooth..  I’m starting to like myself again, and I can buy clothes in regular stores and in regular sizes. It feels great!.  Remember, you’re not alone. It helps to know that when you’re starting out, or when you’re getting discouraged because the results aren’t happening as fast as you want. Join a site, join a support group. It’s a long journey to weight loss, and you don't have to go at it alone.