 is a developmental disability that first appears during childhood, but symptoms may not be properly diagnosed until much later. Autism may be mild or severe — from presenting some challenges to being nearly debilitating when it comes to functioning in society.. There's still a lot that's unknown about autism — it's not understood what causes it, and there's no real cure. But .  exists in the form of therapy to help people after an autism diagnosis is made.. Most often, autism is noticed and diagnosed during childhood; the symptoms can become clear by about age 3. While your child's pediatrician will perform well-baby and well-child exams to make sure he is developing normally, it's still important to know the warning signs and seek an autism diagnosis if you suspect that your child may be autistic.. Basic .  in children include:. If your child is showing autistic tendencies, because there is no clear diagnostic exam or test for autism, one of the first steps is to rule out any physical problems or health conditions that could be causing these symptoms. Such tests include:. As a parent or caregiver, you'll need to have an interview with your child's doctor to talk about your concerns and any symptoms that you've noticed. You'll also need to provide a medical and mental health history for your child and a family medical history. Your child's doctor will also run a number of tests and exams to help diagnose autism, which may involve a number of other professionals such as physical and . . Additional evaluations may include:. Your child's sensory motor skills will also be evaluated to determine whether the symptoms are a result of autism or if a sensory motor problem is actually the cause.. Autism is just one part of a group of conditions called autism spectrum disorders, which all have similar symptoms. All of the health care professionals on your child’s medical team should be familiar with these disorders and should use criteria from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edition (DSM-IV), a medical reference book that defines mental health conditions for the purposes of diagnosis, to make a diagnosis of autism. Once your doctor has compiled information needed from you and your child, he'll compare the results and your child's symptoms to rating scales designed to help in making a diagnosis. Since there's no blood test or imaging scan to diagnose autism, every diagnostic element is a key piece of the puzzle that is diagnosing autism.