Blood glucose (sugar) testing is an important part of managing .  and staying on top of blood sugar control. Testing regularly shows you how food, exercise, and other factors affect your . . “[It] provides valuable information regarding how blood glucose is doing at a moment in time,” says certified diabetes educator Alison Massey, MS, RD, LDN, CDE, director of diabetes education at Mercy Medical Center in Baltimore. “It gives people an idea of whether blood sugar is in a healthy or unhealthy place.”. But blood sugar testing isn’t always easy — and an array of mistakes can affect your results. In fact, it can be hard to fully understand the guidelines on managing blood sugar testing, according to a study published in the May 2015 issue of the . .. The good news: A little practice can help you get blood sugar testing right. Start by learning how to avoid these common mistakes.. “You want to have the meter that’s most comfortable for you,” says certified diabetes educator . , RD, CDE, owner of Cher Nutrition in New York City and author of the upcoming book, The 28-Day Blood Sugar Miracle: A Revolutionary Diet Plan to Get Your Diabetes Under Control in Under a Month. For example, for a younger person who’s on the go, it might be a device that fits right in your pocket. For someone older, it could be a meter with bigger numbers so it’s easier to read.. “Insurance companies typically have a preferred meter that they like members to use,” Massey says. “Individuals can often get better coverage for their diabetes supplies if they use the meter that is preferred for their plan.” If you're on Medicare, you can probably use the meter of your choice, Massey says, but keep in mind that diabetes supplies are covered under medical supplies and not your prescription benefits.. Your meter is an important tool in your efforts to control your blood sugar, but it’s hard to watch out for blood sugar trends if your meter is not working as it should, Massey says. Be sure to set it up with the correct day and time.. Many people test their blood sugar too soon after eating, which can give you a reading that’s too high. Although you’ll want to check with your doctor about when and how often you should be testing your blood sugar, the most accurate readings are usually two hours after a meal, Pastore says.. The best way to tell how well you're .  is to test regularly, which means you need to make blood sugar testing part of your daily routine. “Think about what you can do to remind yourself, like setting an alarm in your phone,” Massey suggests. This is especially useful if you’re having trouble establishing a routine to check your blood sugar.. If your hands have residual sugar on them from something you’ve eaten or touched, that could affect the reading, Pastore says. Avoid using rubbing alcohol or antibacterial hand sanitizer to clean your hands. Wash your hands with soap and water and dry them thoroughly before using your meter.. To get the most accurate results, you need to use the correct lancets and testing strips for your your meter. Lancing devices, or the part you use to poke yourself, can get dull and hurt if you reuse them. This is why it’s generally recommended to change them after every use.To get the most accurate reading, you should also make sure your testing strips have been properly stored and are not expired.. The center of your fingertip is a little more sensitive, Pastore says, so testing there can hurt. Because of that, she advises her clients to test on the side of the fingertip and not smack in the middle. You should also switch the finger you use to test, because testing from the same spot every time can cause calluses to develop.. If you’re dehydrated, that can affect your readings, Pastore says. Steer clear of alcohol and drink more water if you suspect dehydration is causing inaccurate readings.. The best way to understand your results and know what raises your blood sugar levels is to track them, Pastore says. .  about your results to determine if any changes need to be made to your diabetes management plant.