Five pounds per week is an aggressive, unrealistic, and potentially unhealthy weight-loss goal. You did not put all the weight on in one month, so you should not expect to lose it all in one month either! As a general rule, you should aim for 1 to 2 pounds of weight loss per week.. Weight loss and weight maintenance are long-term commitments. To lose 1 to 2 pounds per week, you'll need to eliminate 500 to 1,000 calories from your daily diet as well as engage in regular physical activity. You don't need to join a gym; walking is great exercise. Over the course of a few weeks, you'll want to work your way up to 30 minutes of exercise per day at least five days a week. When you start feeling comfortable doing 30 minutes a day, begin to add more exercises and activities, and build toward 45 minutes to an hour of exercise, five days a week.. Your primary .  should be aerobic in nature — for example, walking, stationary cycling, or swimming. While .  (weight lifting) has many health benefits, it really does not help with weight loss. The numerous claims that strength training increases muscle mass and therefore daily energy expenditure are not supported by research.. Before you start a new exercise program, it's always a good idea to check with your doctor — especially if you have any medical conditions.. You may need to spend .  time doing crunches and .  time on the treadmill, stair climber, or stationary bike. Contrary to popular belief, abdominal tone doesn't come from doing a million crunches. In fact, you may already have abs of steel — they simply may be covered by a layer of insulation. So, instead of doing 10 or 15 minutes of crunches, try doing three to five minutes of exercises targeting different abdominal muscles as well as your lower back; focus on using good form and really tightening those muscles. Then spend the extra five to seven minutes burning fat with a .  such as running or cycling.. Congratulations, you've done a great job so far! The last 10 pounds are usually the hardest to lose, but don't give up! The best way to jump-start your metabolism is to add another five minutes to your routine. Try light walking around the block, toning exercises, even light isometrics at the office during the day. These will all help to speed up that metabolism and burn those extra pounds. Also, make sure to drink plenty of water and curb .  in the evening. This will help you get over this last step. Good luck — you're almost there!. People often get concerned about "bulking up" when weight training is involved in their exercise program, but there's no need to be worried. Building muscle and .  go hand in hand, and here's why: While you burn calories when you exercise and when you do daily activities like walking or climbing stairs, you burn the bulk of your calories just by sitting still. This is called your resting metabolic rate. For each pound of lean muscle you have on your body, you burn calories by doing absolutely nothing! What's important for you to know is that the more muscle you build, the higher your resting metabolic rate, and the more calories your burn per day. That's why building muscle is such an important part of weight loss, and why it's so good for your health -- all that muscle makes it even easier to keep the fat off.. The other benefit of .  is that muscle tissue will keep you looking lean and taut. You may lose fat by dieting and by doing cardio exercises, but to look trim you need to build muscle in place of the fat. Muscle is also higher in volume than fat, so every pound of muscle takes up less room on your body, making you smaller and giving you that great shape you're looking for.. Completing a high number of repetitions at a lower weight is ideal for sculpting your body and speeding your metabolism to help keep the weight off.. Get more .  tips from . .. Learn more in the Everyday Health . .