Romance isn't just about a box of chocolates on Valentine's Day. A .  can also make people feel happy and healthy. So if dating that special someone, avoid stalking their ex on Facebook, keeping feelings bottled up and splitting the double cheeseburger every night. These (and 17 other) bad habits could make a great relationship take a turn for the worse..  News flash: There's no such thing as a . . So don't expect unrealistic changes. Reminding him or her to make the bed is one thing — trying to change radically change shyness or anxiety is another and could be ignoring the underlying causes for those issues in the first place..  The 'rents may be harder to handle than your significant other. But even if there's some clashing of heads, don't focus on the family's faults. Getting criticism from family members can make people feel depressed and hostile — which means some tense holiday dinners. Besides, the situation can't be worse than what . ..  Getting it on in public may not only make bystanders uncomfortable, it may also compensate for a lack of real communication. Stick to hand-holding and quick kisses, and save the rest for the bedroom (or . )..  As if PDA weren't bad enough. Arguing in public can embarrass the couple and make . , too. Talk it out in private, please..  Love isn't all good, all the time. Disagreements are bound to happen, and arguments can be a healthy part of a relationship. .  having conflict may make . . Just don't make fighting an . ..  If something is wrong, the other person .  can't read your mind. When a problem comes up, speak up at the right time. .  young couples are less stressed when they talk out their issues than when they keep their feelings bottled up. And don't forget to say, "I love you." Expressing emotions — positive and negative — can benefit that bond..  People make mistakes, and .  may not only hurt a relationship — it could also cause unwanted stress and anxiety. Sympathy may be easier to give if we realize it will benefit .  health..  Conversations about important issues, such as relationship expectations and financial blunders, all have their time and place. Don't bring up serious topics when someone's stressed, like at the end of the workday or right before hosting a party. Set up a time to talk when both people are relaxed..  Sure, relationships should be about give and take (not like . ), but .  of every little detail. (I paid for the last six dinners, and you only paid for five!) It could cause unnecessary tension..  No relationship is perfect. (Take it . ). So don't create drama out of every scenario. If a mate forgets to take out the garbage, there's no need for a scene. .  and address the problem calmly..  When two people want to make it work, trust is key. Have confidence in your mate and respect their privacy: Don't snoop through texts, emails or bedroom drawers..  Doubting your partner may be a symptom of a larger problem: relationship insecurity. And women who feel insecure in their relationships may be at greater risk for health issues like a weakened immune system..  Sometimes when partners feel .  secure with each other, they end up . , possibly because they're less physically active. Try .  to stay both happy and healthy..  .  and stop comparing the current partner with a person from the past. This could lead to . . (Your new boo may be an awful singer, and that's okay!).  Everyone — even single folks — needs some alone time. Solitude may even . , making time together more valuable..  Little white lies can add up, and ruin a relationship that should be . . . , of course: "Sweetie, that homemade dinner tasted . ".  Don't just be honest with a companion. Stay real about .  in order to stay satisfied. Is a long distance relationship really worth the work? Is it okay that they're working .  the time?.  Not feeling confident in a relationship can really do some damage: Low self-esteem is sometimes . , which could make things less heated in the bedroom. (And few people want that...) Getting active, setting goals, and even smiling can improve self-confidence. But don't forget that an unhealthy relationship can actually .  low self-esteem, so steer clear of someone who makes things feel less than great..  Remember to ask yourself why you two are dating, and what you want out of it. Does a partner want to .  while you want to remain casual? Being with someone for .  is one slippery slope!.  Always remember why you love that special someone. Showing .  and paying attention to that good person by your side will only make the relationship stronger.. Late night escapades may prompt runners to feel as though they are running at a faster pace. But is there evidence that proves running at night and/or in the dark directly improves speed? Or is a visual illusion responsible for the apparent nighttime speed-up? . .. Other Articles From Greatist: