 Equally hated as he is loved by Hollywood starlets, celebrity-blogging mogul Perez Hilton was at one time almost as famous for his frumpy physique as he is for his biting celebrity critiques.. Fans of Hilton, 34, whose real name is Mario Armando Lavandeira, Jr., have been following his healthy eating and exercise habits on his main blog, . , and the healthy living spin-off site he founded in 2010, . . This weekend at LOGO's 2012 NewNowNext Awards, Hilton gave fans a look at how hard work can pay off. While walking the red carpet, he tore away his blazer to reveal a set of tanned washboard abs.. This moment has been a long-time coming for Hilton, who decided to lose weight and get healthy at the beginning of 2008.. "Like so many people, I have struggled with my weight throughout my entire life," he told .  magazine a few months ago. "At the beginning of 2008, I made a commitment to my health and I have stuck to it. Nearly four years later and I am in the best shape of my life!". Over the past four years, Hilton has lost a reported 70 to 80 pounds, and he revealed to .  over the weekend that he lost the weight the old fashioned way: through portion control, healthy eating, and a lot of . "It wasn't quick," the self-proclaimed "Queen of All Media" told the Huffington Post. "And I worked for it! I'm still working for it! In fact, I'm working much harder on my fitness now than when I first started this journey.". When .  asked about his exercise routine, he said he works out seven days a week to stay in shape.. "I work out in the gym Monday through Thursday, and I do pilates Friday and Saturday. I do yoga on Sundays. And I also try to hike a couple times a week and ride my bicycle on weekends," he revealed.. Hilton also gets his meals delivered, which he said is a huge help for . . But he's quick to point out that if meal delivery won't work for you, "you can be your own meal delivery program.". "I tell people to buy a healthy cookbook and make their meals twice a week ahead of time for the entire week," he says. "You can do it!". And now that he's in the best shape of his life, he hopes to maintain his weight, and inspire others with his can-do attitude and . .. "Looking good isn't as good as feeling good," Hilton says. "And I feel better than ever!"