Bipolar disorder, sometimes called manic depression or manic-depressive illness, is a brain disorder that causes extreme shifts in mood, energy level and behavior. Everyone has ups and downs, but people with bipolar disorder have higher "highs" and lower "lows." They may repeatedly go from feeling very energetic or extremely irritable to feeling crushing sadness and hopelessness. Bipolar disorder is a lifelong illness with no cure, but it can be successfully treated.. There are several types of bipolar disorder, each defined by the severity and pattern of manic and depressive episodes. Recognition of bipolar disorder is critical since, left untreated, it can have significant negative impact on a person’s life. In addition, the treatment of bipolar disorder is different from that for the more common “unipolar” depression.. Though the cause or causes of bipolar disorder have yet to be uncovered, scientists are working on identifying a genetic connection. New research is looking at genes that are thought to be linked to the development of bipolar disorder as well as schizophrenia.. An equal number of men and women develop bipolar disorder. Men tend to begin with a manic episode while women more often start with an episode of depression. The alternating episodes of mania and depression that define bipolar disorder can differ greatly from person to person. They can last from a few hours to a few months and may occur several times a year or only rarely. The defining characteristic of bipolar disorder is the occurrence of mania or hypomania. Hypomania is similar to mania but the symptoms are less severe and less disabling.. Some people have symptoms of mania and depression at the same time. Doctors call this a mixed state. In between manic and depressive episodes, people with bipolar disorder often feel well and have no symptoms of the illness. Often people do not recognize their bipolar disorder as an illness, and some go undiagnosed and without treatment for years.. As with other mental illnesses, there are no lab tests or other physical procedures to help doctors diagnose bipolar disorder. To make a diagnosis, doctors consider a person's symptoms, how those symptoms have progressed, and his or her family history of bipolar or other mood disorders such as depression. Bipolar disorder can be difficult to diagnose for several reasons:. In a manic episode, for at least a week a person must feel either so euphoric or so irritable that there is significant impairment of social or occupational function. In addition, if the mood is euphoric, he or she must have at least three of the following symptoms. If the mood is irritable, at least four of the symptoms must be present:. The symptoms of hypomania are similar to those of mania, but they are less severe and often of shorter duration. Hypomania causes little or no functional impairment and does not result in hospitalization.. In a depressive episode, for at least two weeks a person must feel so sad, empty or hopeless that his or life is significantly impaired. In addition, he or she must have four or more of these symptoms:. Patients with bipolar disorder are frequently misdiagnosed as having unipolar depression because mania or hypomania symptoms may not be recognized. They may have occurred in the past, the symptoms may have been mild (as in hypomania), or the symptoms of depression may be so striking that bipolar is just not considered. It is critical that patients with depression, including those without obvious mania, be questioned about the possibility of prior manic or hypomanic episodes. A family history of bipolar disorder may also point to the correct diagnosis.. A general practice physician may be able to diagnose bipolar disorder by eliminating other conditions. But a mental health specialist, such as a psychiatrist or psychologist, is better trained to detect the signs and symptoms of bipolar disorder and would likely be more knowledgeable about the latest treatments.. Because bipolar disorder is a lifelong disease with no cure, treatment must be long term. In most cases, that means combining medications with psychotherapy ("talk" therapy) and lifestyle changes to help maintain stable moods. Cognitive behavior therapy, psycho-education, family therapy, and interpersonal and social rhythm therapy work well for some with bipolar disorder.. Treatment depends on the severity of the symptoms and whether the illness is in an acute highly symptomatic phase or in a quieter chronic phase of remission. The cornerstone treatment for bipolar disorder is mood stabilizers, which may be combined with anti-psychotic medication. Anti-depressants have little role in the treatment of bipolar disorder and may actually make it worse. This is why proper diagnosis is critical, since antidepressants are the primary treatment for unipolar depression.. In some cases – for example, if medicines can't be used or depression or mania is very severe – electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a treatment option.. By adopting regular habits, people with bipolar disorder may help avoid manic and depressive episodes.. This may help you better understand the illness and assist your doctor in treating you most effectively.. Your doctor may be able to refer you to professionals who specialize in psychosocial treatment for people with bipolar disorder. In addition, the following Web sites and organizations offer information and support for people living with bipolar disorder and other mental illnesses: