For something so small, flaxseed has big benefits. Recent studies have shown that flaxseed, known to the world for thousands of years, may aid in lowering cholesterol, stabilizing blood sugar, reducing bone loss, promoting . , increasing immunity, and fighting cancer, says clinical nutritionist Stella Metsovas of Laguna Beach, Calif.. Flaxseed is high in:. Flaxseed may:. Metsovas says that, despite all the good research about flaxseed benefits, false claims about flaxseed do exist and more research is needed. She also thinks that fish oil, and its omega-3s, are more beneficial. “Although I hold flaxseed in high regard when it comes to fiber and colon health, I do not believe plant sources of omega-3s are as beneficial as fish oils,” she says.. There are other cautions. “People who have inflammatory bowel conditions, like . , should avoid flaxseeds due to their laxative effects,” says Metsovas. Women who are pregnant and mothers who are breastfeeding should not consume ground flaxseed either. Studies also show that women who have issues like fibroids, endometriosis, and polycystic ovary disease should not eat flaxseed. And, Metsovas adds, men who have an increased risk of .  should avoid ALA. If you are taking medications, check with your doctor before adding flax to your . .. Grown in Central Asia, North America, and Europe, flax is found on the shelves of many conventional and health food stores as ground flaxseed, as whole seed, or flaxseed oil. Flaxseed oil comes from cold-pressing the flaxseed. Flaxseed oil is available as organic or conventional. The difference is the way the flax is grown. Flaxseed oil — the fat part of the plant — is richer in ALA than whole flaxseed.. Metsovas suggests buying it whole, then grinding it before you use it. “Because flax is a seed that contains fat, purchasing a product that is already ground could make the fat prone to oxidation,” she says. You can easily grind it in a coffee grinder, food processor, or blender, and decide on coarse or fine — it’s a matter of preference (although most recipes call for it to be finely ground). Kept at room temperature, whole flaxseed should last more than a year. Ground flaxseed should be kept in an airtight container in the refrigerator; it should be good for about 90 days.. For most healthy adults, Metsovas recommends 1 tablespoon a day, and no more than ¼ teaspoon a day for young children. Because flaxseed is high in fiber, when adding it to your diet, start with small amounts and increase it slowly. A tablespoon of ground flaxseed has about 36 calories while a tablespoon of whole flaxseed has about 50 calories.. Flaxseed has a light, nutty taste. Here are some ways to add it to the foods you already eat and enjoy:. Flaxseed is a great way to get fiber and important nutrients into your diet. Experiment with it in your favorite recipes to boost their nutrition profile.