 — Jiggly thighs, flabby arms, a too-soft tummy: Ask most people what they hate most about their bodies, and they have an immediate answer. But the most hated body part of all? According to a new.  magazine and Yahoo! Shine .  of 1,500 men and women, for 21 percent of women, it’s their thighs. For men, 11 percent dislike their butts the most.. When it comes to body parts to flaunt, 31 percent of women ranked cleavage as the spot they most like to display. Nineteen percent prefer to show off their butts, while 14 percent have legs they love to show off.. More findings: 57 percent of women think they look fat naked, but 59 percent aren’t afraid to walk around the house in the buff. Perhaps not surprisingly, more men are comfortable walking around naked at home and in gym locker rooms than women, 63 and 27 percent respectively.. In the couples confidence department, 47 percent of women thought they looked sexier in lingerie than totally nude, and 53 percent of men agree. Still, nearly 3 in 4 couples regularly get busy with the lights on, and more than 10 percent of both men and women have sent someone a naked photo of themselves.. If you’re not feeling confident enough to strut your stuff in the buff, try these tips to boost your . ..  Twenty-four percent of women in the .  survey said they thought they didn’t look perfect naked, but they still looked pretty good. Turns out, that’s the right attitude to have. Focus on being fit and healthy instead..  Studies show that focusing on your flaws can seriously damage your self-esteem and even raise your risk of anxiety and depression. Next time, .  and tell yourself something you like about your body..  Approach exercise knowing that what you’re doing benefits your whole body from the inside out, not just the number on the scale. When you find an exercise you enjoy, you’ll be more likely to stick with it — and more likely to love your body for what it can do, not just how it looks..  Wear clothes that make you look .  feel good, and your body image will soar. Whether you want to . , eat better, exercise more or something else entirely, doing something nice for yourself as you try to achieve your ultimate goal will keep you feeling good.