 FITNESS magazine’s “most wanted body” of 2011, Jennifer Aniston, 43, is famous for her long, lean muscles, glowing skin, and iconic hair. In the same . , 65 percent of women said if they could have one celebrity body part, it would be Aniston’s chiseled abs.. What keeps her so toned is a constant source of speculation (in the past, Aniston has been rumored to follow the . , as well as a strict yoga routine). In the new issue of .  magazine, Aniston dished on the details.. “I work out almost every day, at least five or six days a week,” she says. “I do 40 minutes of cardio: spinning, running, the elliptical, or a combination of all three.” Aniston also says she does one day of .  per week, and yoga three days a week, while constantly trying to mix up her routine.. She also revealed that she takes 8-pound hand weights with her when she’s traveling to do arm exercises, and she stretches and does a few sit-ups every night before going to bed.. Aniston admits she loves occasionally indulging on high-calorie Mexican food, but her diet remains healthy the rest of the time.. “Most of the time I eat things like salmon or other fish, quinoa, lentils, and green vegetables,” she says. “I also take liquid fish oil and resveratrol, which is supposed to be good for your heart.”. Six days a week at the gym might not work for your schedule, but Aniston’s routine can still be inspiration for us mere mortals without pricy trainers and nutritionists to keep us on track. Here are a few of Aniston top tips you can try..  Too often women skip strength because they’re afraid of looking bulky, but studies show that .  can increase muscle tone, help you burn more calories, boost bone health, and more. Add strength training, whether it’s with Pilates, free weights, resistance bands or another method, to your routine at least twice per week..  If a busy celeb like Aniston can squeeze in a few anywhere, anytime workouts, surely you can do, too. Follow her lead and add a few equipment-free exercises, such as stretches, crunches, squats, lunges, or yoga, to your morning or evening routine..  Diets full of .  can help control weight, improve your skin and hair, help your heart health and more. Studies show eating fish just once or twice a week can be enough to reap the benefits. If you don’t eat fish, consider taking an omega-3 supplement to your diet..  Aniston’s not shy about occasionally eating the foods she loves (like guacamole), and then getting back on track with her healthy diet the next day. If it’s a special occasion, go ahead and have dessert without beating yourself up about it — just renew your commitment to a healthy diet and exercise when you’re finished.