Depriving .  cells of good cholesterol may offer a new drug-free approach to eradicating the disease, according to a study just released from Northwestern University, where scientists have uncovered a clever, nontoxic way to do so: by feeding the cells tiny bits of gold.. Non-Hodgkins and Hodgkins lymphomas are cancers that originate from B-cells, which are derived from bone marrow. Around one in 50 Americans will develop non-Hodgkins lymphoma, which primarily affects people over the age of 65. Hodgkins lymphoma, a less common form of the disease, mostly impacts people between 15 and 40 years of age, especially in the twenties.. Lymphoma cells require . , to survive and proliferate, according to Leo Gordon, MD, the Abby and John Friend professor of Oncology Research at Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine, co-author of the study. He used nanoparticles — or microscopic pieces of matter made of actual gold — to "fool" the cancerous cells and kill them off.. The discovery happened nearly by accident, in tests conducted on cells in test tubes as well as in tests on mice, says Gordon, whose study was published in the .  . .. "We were interested in looking at ways to deliver chemo to lymphoma cells, using [nanoparticles] as a way to pull cholesterol out of vascular cells," explains Gordon. "We thought we would attach chemotherapy" to the nanoparticles. For the control group in the study, the researchers attached gold particles that weren't infused with chemotherapy drugs.. The outside of the nanoparticles Gordon tested are identical to the outside of HDL cholesterol particles. "We think the cells see the particles and think it's cholesterol," says Gordon.. To the researchers' surprise, cancer cells were killed more effectively in the control group — the cells that received the gold nanoparticles .  the chemotherapy drug.. The results could lead to a new way of treating lymphoma.. Developments in treatment have greatly increased the survival rate for Hodgkins lymphoma; around 92 percent for one year; 84 percent for five years; and 79 percent for 10 years. The five-year survival rate for non-Hodgkins lymphoma is around 67 percent and the 10-year survival rate is 55 percent, according to the American Cancer Society. In the past few decades, treatment for both types of lymphoma has dramatically improved and extended life expectancy for a majority of patients. Treatment includes both radiation and chemotherapy, along with Rituxan, a first-line drug for the majority of lymphoma patients that's also commonly used for a number of . , including multiple sclerosis and . .. Gordon says that while statistics show current treatments are effective, they still are not enough, because "we're not curing everybody." He thinks nanoparticles could potentially be used as adjunct therapy. "We don't know what role it's going to have yet, until we get some more clinical data.". Gold salts have been used in drugs such as Ridaura and Solganal, for diseases such as . . Experts say the gold accumulates in the body over time and attacks certain cells that are responsible for the body's inflammatory response. "It's a pretty nontoxic substance," Gordon says.. The next step is to find out how genes are altered in lymphoma cells when cholesterol is pulled out of the membranes. Gordon will conduct further studies of the nanoparticles on mammals. His team hopes to start clinical trials of these nanoparticles on humans in the next few years. Additionally, he says, they will look at whether nanoparticles are effective for killing other cancers, such as breast cancer and certain types of leukemia.