 You ingest around 100 .  nanoparticles every day, researchers at Binghamton University and Cornell University say, though nanotechnology’s effect on our long-term health is still TBD. To help shed light on how the nanoparticles found in food and nutritional supplements can impact our health, the same researchers published a new paper in the journal .  — and the results may be alarming. Before we jump into the research, let’s start with the basics.. Simply put, nanoparticles are tiny materials that in recent years have been added to everything from sunscreen to protein powder to develop products that will last longer and stay fresher. A nanoparticle can be made up of any combination of elements, such as silver, iron, oxygen, and carbon. .  presented at the International Society of Organic Agriculture Research in 2011, nano-silver is the most commonly used particle in health and .  products, most often for its antimicrobial properties.. Billions of engineered nanoparticles are also found in pharmaceuticals, food additives, vitamins, and other consumer products, .  reports. In recent years, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the U.S. Department of Agriculture have spent millions of dollars researching the potential uses — and potential risks — of nanotechnology. Currently, most nanoparticles are FDA-approved for use in consumer products, though any food engineered with nanotechnology is ineligible for certified organic status.. Because nanotechnology is a relatively new field few studies to date have been able to identify whether or not nanoparticles come with a health risk. But this new data from Binghampton and Cornell inches us closer to an answer.. In the study, a team of biomedical engineers tracked how large doses of polystyrene nanoparticles — a common material found in food substances — affected how well chickens absorbed the . . The scientists found that intense, short-term nanoparticle exposure initially blocked the nutrient absorption. A longer-term exposure actually changed the intestinal cell structure, causing the chickens to absorb 200 percent more iron. This physiological change at the cell level was unexpected, researchers wrote in the paper.. The most concerning aspect of this study is that chronic exposure to nanoparticles may also cause a higher absorption of harmful chemicals. In the past, it has been thought to promote the development of a range of conditions, including . , but more research needs to be done.. Although research on the effects of nanoparticles is far from conclusive, there are little things you can do to avoid contact with nanotechnology. First, eat only organic produce and avoid genetically engineered foods. You can also skip vitamins and other dietary supplements, but be sure to talk to your doctor before altering your supplement routine. Avoid cosmetics, sunscreens, and cleaning products that come in contact with your skin that contain nanoparticles — because many products that use nanotechnology are not labeled, it’s best to check with the manufacturer..  