 An oral drug for rheumatoid arthritis that was approved by the FDA last year continues to show encouraging signs, even in patients who have not been successful with other RA treatment options, like the drug methotrexate.. The new medication, Xeljanz (tofacitinib), was found in a phase III clinical trial in the Netherlands to lessen disease activity and slow down the joint damage caused by rheumatoid arthritis.. Rheumatoid arthritis affects approximately 1 percent of individuals worldwide, including 1.3 million Americans. A chronic condition with no cure, . . The best approach to the disease is to slow the progression of joint damage and lessen the impact of its symptoms, experts say.. Five months ago, Xeljanz .  in two phase 3 trials. Now, results of a 24-month clinical trial and a 12-month post-trial analysis have been published in the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) journal . , show a similar trend.. "Tofacitinib inhibits Janus kinase (JAK) enzymes that are found in white blood cells, and which help to regulate the immune system," explained lead investigator Désirée van der Heijde, MD, PhD, of Leiden University Medical Center in the Netherlands, in a press release. "We are examining the oral JAK inhibitor, tofacitinib, as a disease-modifying anti-inflammatory drug (DMARD) and for its ability to modulate the immune system in those with RA.". Dr. van der Heijde's 24-month study included 797 participants and was designed to determine how effective Xeljanz was for rheumatoid arthritis compared to methrotrexate. One of the primary goals of the study was to find out if it would be useful in patients who had already tried the rheumatoid arthritis drug methotrexate. A 12-month analysis of the trial showed that the drug was effective in preserving joint structure in patients, even in patients who had no success using methotrexate.. A few weeks ago, Australian researchers found that a . .The latest Xeljanz trial offers the possibility that the drug offers another alternative.. "Our findings provide the first evidence that tofacitinib reduces the progression of structural damage in RA patients with active disease," concluded van der Heijde in the release.