 People are often willing to pay a high price for what's considered "beautiful" — but they may not be aware that it's costing them their health.. In March, an FDA alert was issued warning consumers to avoid . , anti-aging, and other creams containing mercury, which are often often imported and marketed to those in Hispanic, Asian, and African immigrant communities. The alert was prompted by a Minnesota Department of Health investigation that found 11 of 27 skin products tested exceeded the allowable mercury content.. On Wednesday, Minnesota regulators announced they had successfully cleared these products from shelves in Minneapolis and St. Paul, after being tipped off by members of the Twin Cities Somali community. According to the . , the products, which cost about $25, were sold mainly to Somali, Hmong, and Latino women.. But the creams may still be in stores — and other venues — in many other U.S. states. California state health officials are currently visiting swap meets, flea markets, and other retail sources in the Bay Area to find creams for testing, says the . . And the FDA says cases of mercury toxicity from .  have been reported in Maryland, Texas, Virginia, and New York.. Minnesota is currently the only U.S. state that bans mercury in all cosmetics. On the federal level, the ingredient has been banned in skin-bleaching products since 1990.. Mercury has a long history as a skin whitener; it was used by the ancient Greeks, Egyptians, and Romans. But they were unaware of mercury's health effects, which can include kidney and nervous system damage, changes in vision or hearing, or numbness in hands or feet. In pregnant women, it can interfere with the brain development of the fetus. Young children are also at risk for brain damage if they breathe in mercury vapors or touch a family member using a mercury-containing cream and then put their fingers in their mouth. Severe cases of mercury poisoning can cause the body organs to shut down, leading to death.. The FDA cited the case of a 39-year-old California woman who used a mercury-containing face cream imported from Mexico for three years. She had more than 100 times the average amount of mercury in her urine and was showing signs of mercury poisoning. Other people in her household were also affected, including a four-year-old child.. Because these products are manufactured abroad and often enter the country via travelers or by mail, the FDA advises not using skin products labeled in languages other than English, unless an English translation is also provided. In 2010, the .  tested 50 skin-lightening creams purchased around the city and online and found six that contained illegal amounts of mercury. The six creams were manufactured in Lebanon, China, India, Pakistan, and Taiwan.. Mercury may be listed on the label under other names; check to see if your cream contains "mercurous chloride," "calomel," "mercuric," or "mercurio," all of which are mercury. Products that lack a label should also be avoided.. And if you think you've been using a mercury-containing cream, stop immediately and call your doctor.