There’s not an etiquette book filled with pointers for living with . , but there probably should be. Crohn’s symptoms mean unusual changes in diet, weight, energy levels, and hygiene, which can lead to awkward conversations with well-intentioned people. If you’re struggling with ways to talk about your . , the side effects of Crohn’s medications, or other everyday issues related to your Crohn’s disease, these icebreakers will help you know what to say.. When your best friend enviously exclaims that you’re looking svelte, it’s fine to accept the compliment — just fill her in on the reason why you’re shedding pounds, and maybe give her some “secrets” from your Crohn’s diet, like skipping soda. During a flare-up of Crohn’s symptoms, a serious loss of appetite often contributes to the unintentional weight loss. Crohn’s is also associated with diarrhea and poor absorption of protein, fats, and carbs. Chances are you’re more concerned with getting enough nutrients than your waistline during these times. On the flip side, if you’re .  to control Crohn’s symptoms, you could be putting on unwanted weight. Either way, you could respond to comments with:. Show up at Aunt Sara’s without a healthy appetite for all of the .  so nicely on the buffet table, and you know you’ll catch some shade from your loving relatives. “Most people with Crohn’s have figured out what they need to do to avoid worse symptoms,” says gastroenterologist . , an associate professor of internal medicine at the University of Virginia School of Medicine in Charlottesville. If your family doesn’t know this, someone will inevitably want you to “just try one little bite.” “You need a bit more variety in your diet,” they might say. Try these strategies:. “We’ve never shown that stress plays a role in development of Crohn’s disease, but we clearly see that stress can exacerbate the IBD (inflammatory bowel disease) in your life," says Dr. Behm. A review article published in .  noted a chicken or the egg conundrum about IBD and depression.  It argued that having depression may worsen IBD symptoms, but also having IBD can worsen depression. Researchers are continuing to study whether an IBD active symptom flare may also cause a biological chain reaction that initiates negative feelings, including anxiety. "It is a vicious circle where you’re feeling poorly because of this condition that increases the stress in your life.”. Well-meaning loved ones may think advising you to relax a little will help your symptoms. There is a nugget of truth in their concern: People who have Crohn’s disease are at higher risk for . , Behm says, often experiencing emotional distress that impairs their overall quality of life.. Coping with a chronic illness is tough, and many people receive their diagnosis in young adulthood, becoming the first person in their peer group faced with taking regular medications and following special diets. As a result, it may trigger social isolation and fear of rejection, both of which add to stress. So, it’s fine to let the .  know that stress doesn’t clearly .  Crohn’s, but it’s also a good idea to listen to their concerns. Sometimes the people closest to you can see signs of depression before you do, so consider getting an evaluation and, if necessary, treatment. Antidepressant medication and cognitive behavioral therapy both help. A good response to their concern is something like:. “For someone in the midst of a flare, it might not be practical to go to a place without easy access to the bathrooms,” says Behm. When the urge to go hits, you don’t have much time. As isolating as it might feel, remember there are many people who need speedy access to a bathroom for various reasons — pregnancy, potty training a toddler, or incontinence, for instance.. Behm advises these strategies when family members encourage you to join them for outings:. Crohn’s disease can be fatiguing. That means when friends want to go shopping or try out a new hiking trail, sometimes you may have to pass. “It makes it hard to connect with friends when you’re having symptoms and the friends don’t understand what you’re going through,” says Behm. Some ways to handle this are:. In the midst of a flare, you may not have the desire, or the ability, to be intimate, says Behm. Symptoms include increased pain with intercourse, in addition to leakage or sores that make the act itself pretty undesirable. A flare’s duration can be a little unpredictable, so Behm recommends being as open and honest as possible with your partner about . . Some ideas include:. Crohn’s conversations may start out a little awkward, but Behm notes that most people find their friends and loved ones are . , even if what they say is sometimes a little clumsy. Most of the time, you can’t go wrong in reassuring people that you are doing the best you can to take care of yourself — and perhaps give them some ideas for helping you out.