 Kidney disease accounts for most premature deaths in people with type 2 diabetes, a new population study published in the .  finds, highlighting the need for better treatment and .  in those with diabetes.. After tracking 15,046 adults over a decade, researchers found that 7.7 percent of those who did not have diabetes or kidney disease had died. Among individuals with diabetes but without kidney disease, 11.5 percent had died. But among those with both diabetes . kidney disease, the mortality rate rose to a staggering 31.1 percent.. "People with type 2 diabetes have many other risk factors for cardiovascular disease and mortality, so we expected that kidney disease would predict a part, but not a majority, of higher mortality associated with type 2 diabetes," said lead researcher Maryam Afkarian, MD, PhD, of the University of Washington in a release. "To our surprise, we found that even in the medically complex patients with type 2 diabetes, kidney disease is a very powerful predictor of premature death.". This is the first study to determine the strength of the link between kidney disease and mortality among people with type 2 diabetes, though diabetes has long been associated with an overall increased mortality risk, particularly due to . .. A third or more of those with diabetes will eventually develop kidney disease, researchers say.. The reason: Your kidneys filter waste from your blood, and because diabetes that is not well-controlled results in high levels of sugar in the blood, the kidneys can be forced to work overtime. Eventually, the kidneys will begin to break down and perhaps even fail. The better diabetes is managed over the long-term, the less likely people with diabetes will experience kidney problems.. Those with both .  have an increased risk for kidney problems because of the blood vessel damage caused by hypertension. Managing blood pressure, taking prescribed diabetes medications, quitting smoking, eating a healthy diet, and exercising regularly can all help prevent kidney damage.  . , their doctor should also check for a protein called microalbumin, which can signal kidney problems.. Because the subgroup of patients with both type 2 diabetes and kidney disease carry the greatest mortality risk, Dr. Afkarian said, doctors and patients should treat both conditions aggressively. Preventing kidney disease might be a powerful way to reduce mortality in people with diabetes..  . .