Jessica Simpson gave birth to her daughter, Maxwell Drew, just two months ago — but the rumor mill surrounding her post-baby weight loss is already in full force.. The singer, actress, and fashion mogul, 31, is "stressed" over her goal of losing 50 pounds by the end of the year, .  reports, thanks to the added pressure of her new $4 million contract with . Simpson was heavily scrutinized during her pregnancy for her weight gain and diet that . , such as buttered Pop-Tart pastries. The 5'3" star reportedly tipped the scales at 210 during her pregnancy — a number that raised eyebrows as more and more medical evidence indicates that what a mother eats while pregnant can affect her child of the rest of his or her life. Doctors at the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore and other institutions are even recommending .  for some overweight pregnant women.. As for Simpson, her trainer .  says she's more focused on losing the weight than ever. In the past two weeks, Simpson has been spotted leaving Pasternak's private gym five times. .  reports that she eats a high-protein diet that's also filled with vegetable juices.. To reach her goal weight by Dec. 31, Simpson will have to shed a little more than two pounds a week, which is more than the rate recommended by Jennifer McDaniel, MS, RD, CSSD, LD, a nutritionist and spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. McDaniel says losing one pound per week is healthy and points out that it could easily take a year to return to a pre-pregnancy weight healthfully. And despite what superhuman celeb moms such as Beyoncé and Miranda Kerr present, immediately bouncing back to a pre-baby body isn't the norm. To get an idea of what new moms .  trainers and nutritionists at their beck and call live with, we turned to .  for their stories of post-pregnancy weight struggles.. "I was teeny back then and gained 33 pounds with my first pregnancy," Rachelle Vega wrote on Facebook."The hardest part about losing the last 10 pounds was finding the time to exercise in the midst of working full-time and having an infant." Andrea Dresser wrote that her weight loss was hindered by post-partum depression. "I gained and lost 60 pounds with both pregnancies," she explained. "The first time it was easy to lose. Went back to work 8 weeks postpartum and worked out. The second child, I had .  and wasn't concerned about my physical health for a long time. Around 9 months postpartum, I started medication and began to take more interest in self-care. It was a very rough time!". Some moms, such as Alison Fichter Taber, says hard work post-baby paid off — just not right away. "I gained 40 with the first, lost 30, and got pregnant again 8 month postpartum," she wrote. "I gained 30 the second time around and only lost 20 after three months postpartum. After baby No. 2 turned 1, the 'I just had a baby' excuse really didn't fly anymore. I lost the rest of the baby weight by doing .  and eating well. I currently weigh the same as I did eight years ago at my wedding.". When it came to the biggest weight struggle after giving birth, most moms agreed that finding the time and energy to workout, plus accepting bodily changes, were most difficult. "I would say my [biggest struggle] is accepting that even though I am at my pre-pregnancy weight, my body does not look the same as it did before kids," Amanda Montgomery wrote. "I lost 40 pounds of water weight from a difficult pregnancy and have struggled since," Jennifer Famiano wrote. "The hardest part is learning about my new metabolism because it isn't the same.". Nutritionist McDaniel says moms should eat healthy, nutrient-dense foods, such as fruits and vegetables, lean protein, whole grains, and nuts, post-baby to keep energy levels up. She recommends eating small, frequent meals, staying well-hydrated, and exercising lightly as soon as your doctor give you the okay.. "Pushing the baby stroller can be provide you a healthy mental and physical break, and get that body back into shape without over-doing it," she says. "If the focus is placed on fueling yourself versus diet deprivation, the weight will come off naturally and you can spend more of your mental energy on being a mom, not on your waistline."