A variety of drugs are used to treat multiple sclerosis (MS) and its symptoms. These include so-called disease-modifying drugs, corticosteroids, and other drugs that target specific symptoms and health problems related to MS, such as depression, bladder problems, and digestive issues.. In MS, an abnormal immune response leads to inflammation in the central nervous system, causing .  that normally protects nerve fibers, and to the nerve fibers themselves. This damage is at the root of the .  — which can include blurred or double vision, numbness, tingling, weakness, fatigue, and loss of coordination — experienced by people with MS.. The goals of disease-modifying MS medicines are to stop or slow the damage to the myelin (a process called demyelination) so that . , occur less frequently or are less severe, and to slow or stop the overall progression of the disease.. Even better than stopping a disease is preventing or curing it. In the future, drugs now in very early studies could either reverse the myelin damage or protect against it, according to research published in April 2015 in . .. Disease-modifying MS drugs work by addressing the inflammatory issues inherent in MS and by changing the way the immune system responds.. “These drugs are all immune modulators,” says . , an associate professor of neurology at the Boston University School of Medicine. “They are disease-modifying medications that can change the course of the disease, although they cannot cure it.”. Some MS drugs are taken by injection (administered by either the person with MS or a caregiver); some are pills, taken orally; and some are given by intravenous infusion by a medical professional.. The increasing number of drugs available gives physicians and patients more options — and discussing those options is important.. "Patients need to be involved in picking the drug," Dr. Otis says. "They should ask why a specific drug is recommended, ask about the side effects, and ask to be given a choice.”. One study examining people’s preferences regarding MS treatment, published in March 2015 in the .  found that most would strongly prefer a daily oral pill over any type of injection. Participants also rated symptom improvement and prevention of long-term disease progression as more important than preventing relapses when choosing among hypothetical drug options.. The researchers point out, however, that preventing relapses is a proven effect of currently available disease-modifying therapies, while improving symptoms is not.. Cost and insurance coverage are also important considerations to most people when choosing an MS drug treatment. As an article published in .  in April 2015 observed, “MS [disease-modifying therapy] costs have accelerated at rates well beyond inflation and substantially above rates observed for drugs in a similar biologic class. There is an urgent need for clinicians, payers, and manufacturers in the United States to confront the soaring costs of DMTs.”. All of the following disease-modifying drugs are approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, which include relapsing-remitting MS and secondary-progressive MS with relapses.. Only one, Novantrone (mitoxantrone) is specifically approved to treat secondary-progressive MS, and only one, Ocrevus (ocrelizumab) is approved for the treatment of primary-progressive MS.. None of these medications are approved by the FDA for use during pregnancy or breastfeeding. Women with MS who are planning a pregnancy should discuss the best treatment approach with their doctor.. Corticosteroids, often referred to simply as steroids, include medications such as .  and . . They are useful in reducing inflammation and calming MS flares, according to the . . Possible side effects include stomach upset, insomnia, and high blood sugar — particularly in people with diabetes.. Steroids are best used in the short term. Extended use can lead to other .  including mood swings, weight gain, high blood pressure, . , glaucoma, cataracts, stomach ulcers, and increased susceptibility to infection. Furthermore, there is no evidence that long-term use of corticosteroids helps reduce symptoms or slows progression of MS, according to the NMSS.. Steroids should not be stopped abruptly, however, because doing so can lead to complications such as extreme tiredness, weakness, and an upset stomach. If you're taking steroids, work with your doctor to gradually taper the dose for optimal safety.. In addition to disease-modifying medications and corticosteroids, there is a wide range of other medications available to help manage MS symptoms. According to the . , they include: