 The negative impact of .  in women reaches far beyond the small intestine, with effects on many aspects of physical and emotional functioning, survey results showed.. In celiac disease, ingested gluten can damage the surface villi and impede nutrient absorption, but 37 percent of women with the condition met the clinical threshold for .  on the 20-item Center for Disease Studies Depression Scale, according to Joshua M. Smyth, PhD, of Pennsylvania State University in University Park, and colleagues.. Moreover, 22 percent also met the criteria for disordered eating assessed on a 29-item questionnaire, the researchers reported online in . .. Following a gluten-free diet is the usual recommended treatment for celiac disease, however, because of the near ubiquity of gluten in common foods, many patients with the immune disorder have difficulty keeping to their diet.. And even those who do adhere to the diet can remain symptomatic, which can interfere with normal functioning and lead to psychological difficulties.. In particular, previous case reports suggested that the focus on food required for the gluten-free diet can become excessive in women, as manifest in . .. To more fully characterize the effects of celiac disease on women's . , Smyth and colleagues recruited 177 women with the disorder for a Web-based survey of disease characteristics, diet, functioning, and psychiatric symptoms.. They found that the average level of adherence to the diet was high.. Higher adherence to the gluten-free diet was associated with increases in vitality, better emotional role function and health, and decreased stress and less depression.. "It is perhaps the case that individuals with celiac disease are relieved of emotional distress through their avoidance of gluten (i.e., knowing that they are following recommendations from their doctors may provide peace of mind), rather than through the diet's direct physical effects," Smyth and colleagues observed.. But adherence also was linked with excessive concerns about food consumption, particularly as it affected weight and shape, the researchers found.. Worse celiac symptoms were associated with poorer physical functioning and mental health.. Correlations also were seen between different areas of psychiatric functioning, such as depression and stress, as well as stress and eating concerns.. The average level of depressive symptoms was 14.93, with a cutoff for clinical depression of 16.. The 65 women whose depression scores were at or above the cutoff had worse celiac symptoms, greater stress, lower dietary adherence, and worse quality of life for both physical and emotional domains.. In addition, the 39 women whose scores on disordered eating measures were "clinically meaningful" had worse celiac symptoms, more stress, depression, and poorer mental health.. "The presence of disordered eating symptoms in the present sample indicates that attending to the risk for extreme thoughts and behaviors related to eating and shape is a large area of opportunity for improving quality of life in women with celiac disease," the researchers stated.. The study confirmed that women with celiac disease are at risk for psychiatric distress, implying that screening may be useful and that psychosocial support may be an important aspect to overall care for these patients, they observed.. Limitations of the study include the small sample size and the possibility of self-selection.