 The editor of my Web site, . , told me that the most frequent questions coming in, by far, were about depression. That surprised me and then I began looking at the statistics on depression in our country. I was really shocked to find that one in 10 Americans is now on an antidepressant drug, that the rates are going up, and that the use of psychiatric drugs among children is so high. And I began thinking about my own history of .  in my earlier life and ways that I had overcome that and it just seemed to me that there’s an awful lot of information that’s not out there.. Last year, my colleagues and I held the first national conference on integrative mental health, in which we really argued for a new paradigm of mental health that’s not entirely rooted in biomedicine. I feel very strongly about that. I think it’s time to look at depression and other emotional disorders from a much broader perspective.. Also, I’m fascinated as to why we’re experiencing an epidemic of depression in our society. I think one reason is the completely unrealistic expectations of happiness that we are led to believe we should have. I think that’s something really peculiar to our culture at the moment that’s really destructive. So I wanted to talk about what I think is a realistic mental health goal. I certainly don’t think it’s constant happiness. I wanted to look at the limitations of the biomedical approach and give people practical information about ways to optimize . ..  I think most people think that happiness comes from something outside, from getting something that you don’t have. I really wanted to emphasize that happiness comes from within, that you can open yourself to the possibility of happiness. It’s analogous to what I wrote about healing some years ago. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that healing really comes from within, from the body’s own regulations - it’s not what you put into someone from outside. It’s an important distinction. In my experience, most people think they’ll have .  if they now have something they don’t have..  Well, I think you might feel a temporary lift from that but it doesn’t last. I think a much better goal is contentment, a quality that comes from within that allows you to maintain a constant positive state, no matter what happens. I cited in the book a lot of research that people in less affluent societies seem to be much more content than we are. In the few hunter-gatherer societies left on the planet, you can’t find many cases of depression. So I think that’s interesting, that the more people have, the less content they seem to be..  Perhaps, but I also think that maybe the things that affluence brings really undermine emotional wellness in a lot of ways; the conveniences of modern living enable us to live really insolated lives. We can create our own cocoon with media centers and virtual realities, and I think that it’s really lessened social connectedness..  I think it’s normal to have ebbs and flows, and there is even some thinking that mild to moderate depression can be useful, that it may be a state that favors solving problems. We might even be evolutionarily selected to experience that occasionally..  It was especially in my twenties, thirties, early forties. I’d been diagnosed with dysthymic disorder. It’s a clinical term for mild to moderate depression. I was never incapacitated by it but there were many days when I woke up feeling blue and didn’t want deal with people, didn’t want to deal with any of it. I dealt with it in different ways. I never took antidepressants. I took [them] for a few days and [they] didn’t agree with me, but I was forced to find ways of managing. The things that I’ve had the most success with over the years have been exercise, meditation, and diet.Over time it’s become less and less. It’s a rare experience for me these days and I wanted to talk in the book about all the things that have helped..  Well, there’s an accumulating body of research that shows that SSRIs [selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, a type of antidepressant medication] may not work any better than placebos, even for severe depression, and that maybe only in very, very severe depression is there in an advantage. One expert says that it may not matter what you do as long as you do something, and it doesn’t matter WHAT you do - it could be going into therapy, taking antidepressants, making a lifestyle change - just doing something that shifts that mental energy. It changes your mood and that’s what really produces a benefit..  And they should never stop it suddenly. With . , it’s important to have a schedule of weaning off, and have other measures before you even attempt that. But I do think that a great many people on these drugs can get by on lower doses or can get by without them as long as they’re doing other things..  Yes it’s very interesting, steroids, cold medicines, including a lot of things that are sold over the counter. It’s very important to have an expert check everything and see what might be contributing..  Very important. And also look at useage of alcohol, caffeine and other recreational drugs..  All of this is changing brain function. We don’t know exactly how or the consequences yet and it may have some benefits. For example, I bet many kids growing up now will have better hand-eye coordination. But I worry about what this is doing. It clearly has shortened attention spans, it is favoring multitasking, which is a bad thing - it prevents you from staying in the present. My general feeling is that it’s very important that people make rules for themselves, to limit this, otherwise there’s a tendency for it to take over your life and undermine emotional health..  You know, there’s a term that’s come into literature called nature deficit disorder, I really believe in that. I think for both physical and mental wellness it’s important for us to spend time outdoors, to experience natural cycles of light and darkness, to hear natural sounds. A lot of aspects of modern life insulate us from that. You know, we’re creatures of nature; we do best when we’ve spent some time in nature. If you’re in a city, that could mean going to a park. You could even bring some pieces of nature into your living spaces, whether that’s a plant or minerals, something. I think humans need to have . ..  Well yes, there’s an interesting piece of research about soil organisms that might have an antidepressant effect. All of this ties into the hygiene hypothesis, that living in an overly clean environment might actually undermine health, expose us to allergies and all that..  It includes the physical level, really developing a program of physical activity, making sure you’re following a healthy diet and taking supplemental fish oil and vitamin B, attending to rest and sleep. There are a lot of suggestions about working on your mind, using Western techniques such as cognitive therapy and Eastern techniques like forms of meditation and concentration and visualization. And then I address a lot of spiritual needs. There’s compelling evidence for simple things like expressing gratitude, keeping a gratitude journal for even a week can produce a very positive powerful lift in mood..  Right. I think this is all doable. A lot of it is new information, not what the average person who goes to the doctor for anxiety or depression gets. This is not to deny the importance of brain chemistry or the fact that some people need medication but there’s so much that people can do to improve common emotional problems and deal with things on a daily basis..  It’s interesting, you know, I think the world has always been teetering on the edge of disaster. A couple summers ago I watched the whole WWII documentary by Ken Burns. My parents lived through that, I was born during that, and my parents lived through the Great Depression, and yet mental health and emotional health were generally better than they are today. And so I don’t think that everything can be pinned on the current financial situation. This is part of why I say people should strive for contentment and resilience rather than happiness. If you work in those directions, whatever extenuating circumstances you’re dealing with, it’s possible to be relatively in balance and not suffer extremes of despair..  I think it was a result of the practices that I’ve been doing over the years, those that I put in the book..  Regular physical activity, taking supplemental fish oil, and I would say feeling and expressing gratitude. These three are very strongly backed by scientific evidence. Those are my top three suggestions.. Interested in more information on Dr. Weil and . , go to . .. ' Early Show .  CBS Evening News. 