 Low levels of vitamin D may confer a . , but too much vitamin D may have the opposite effect, according to a large cross-sectional study.. The critical threshold appears to be a serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentration of 21 ng/mL — more than that level increases C-reactive protein (CRP), a biomarker for cardiovascular disease, but lower serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D lower CRP levels, reported Muhammad Amer, MD, and Rehan Qayyum, MD, MHS, from Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Their findings were published online in the . .. A multivariate analysis that tracked 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations as well as CRP in more than 15,000 healthy adults revealed that above the threshold for benefit, CRP increased with each 10-ng/mL increase in 25-hydroxyvitamin D.. In a univariate analysis, CRP levels decreased as levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D increased up to the median of 21 ng/mL.. The authors analyzed data from participants in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). Researchers combined three two-year cycles of continuous NHANES surveys from 2001 to 2006.. The mean age of participants was 46, and the median serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D and CRP levels were 21 ng/mL and 0.21 mg/dL, respectively. The proportion of men to women was close, 48 percent versus 52 percent, with no significant difference in levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D between the two groups.. Whites had significantly higher baseline levels of .  than nonwhites.. Significantly more people with a body mass index .  had lower 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels at baseline; the same was true for smokers.. However, the mean total cholesterol was significantly higher for those with higher levels of vitamin D at baseline.. "From our results, it appears that vitamin D supplementation among subjects with baseline vitamin D values of greater than 21 ng/mL might have no additional effects on systemic inflammation, as measured by changes in the serum CRP levels," Amer and Qayyum concluded.. Researchers admitted they could not determine a temporal relation between 25-hydroxyvitamin D and CRP. Another limitation was the inability to adjust for geographic location or time of year.