They’re called cutesy names such as muffin tops and love handles, but let’s face it, no one loves the roll of flab that pops over the waistband of your jeans and ruins the sleek line of fitness clothes, clingy sweaters, and tailored shirts.. “Love handles are one of the most common reasons people exercise and hire a . ,” observes certified trainer Jason Keigher CSCS, CPT, who works with clients in New York City. It’s often after an ab workout consisting of thousands of crunches that frustration finally leads people to get help from a fitness pro.. “Most people think that doing crunches will get rid of love handles, but they are misinformed,” Keigher says. When done properly, crunches .  tone muscles, but the problem is, love handles don’t contain an ounce of muscle. They're fat, and to burn fat you need a healthy diet and a rigorous cardiovascular program, he explains.. Work your body correctly, and you will certainly see results, says Sylvia Nasser, a certified personal trainer on Long Island, N.Y. Read on to learn how to trim the fat.. Nasser recommends an overall plan for 30 to 45 minutes of cardio three to four times a week, strength training (including the exercises below) two to three times a week, and a day of rest every week so your body can rebuild muscle. She emphasizes that using a variety of cardio approaches will be the most effective — don’t just stick to only the elliptical or just a few spinning classes. Getting stuck in a cardio routine can lead to a plateau. Instead, you want to keep challenging different muscle groups. She's also a fan of . to burn fat, instead of working at the same steady pace throughout your workout. On the treadmill, for instance, alternate two minutes at your usual pace with 1 minute at a faster speed.. Your initial goals will be weight loss and trimming down the fat. Once you’ve done that — or at least made significant headway — you can start to tone the muscles underneath your love handles. As you burn fat and. through building muscle, that extra padding will eventually go away.. Before you get started, Keigher has a caution for women who may have a diastasis, a midline split in the abdominal muscles around the bellybutton, usually a post-pregnancy problem. First, check with a doctor and a trainer for ways to correct the diastasis and then get their go-ahead to do this type of ab workout.. Make these five exercises part of your plan to tone waist and hips:.  “This exercise will work your internal and external obliques as well as the rectus abdominis [the largest ab muscle],” Keigher says..  “This exercise strengthens your core, in the front and the back,” Nasser explains.. You shouldn’t have to wait too long for results, Nasser says. If you eat a healthy, . , burn more calories than you take in, and enjoy a good mix of cardio and ab workout time, you’ll watch your love handles start to melt away within a few weeks.