It's important to keep and maintain the healthiest aspects of our culture, regardless of whatever that tradition may be. In my film, we demonstrate how soul food can be maintained in a healthier way. Dr. Rani Whitfield talked about baking chicken as opposed to frying chicken, not cooking any sort of greens with the fat back and the pork or meats. Just season the foods. There are a lot of ways we can stay connected.... It's hard for people to wrap their head around making modifications to something they grew up with, but if we open ourselves to the possibility that we can make those changes and it can still be good, we can still have those connections.. I'm definitely hopeful. ... While people don't want to be preached to, people do want to be inspired, people do want to be motivated. They want to be shown how they can eat healthier but maintain the taste. I think people are really afraid they're going to lose something. … People need inspiration and motivation, and that's why this time of the year is always about change and doing better and eating better. People view the new year like a clean plate. … The problem is how do you sustain that energy and really commit? Changing eating habits is not for the faint of heart.. I know a lot of people who are growing gardens, who have rejected the market or the food industry. I don't know how widespread it is, but within certain circles people are using whatever land they have, even if it's their windowsill, to grow vegetables or fruit. I think there is a lot of energy around sustainable growing, urban farming. I think it is because this current food system and the distrust that people have for it is reaching a point where people feel like they have to do something. I do see a lot of change.. Her profile and the fact that she's such a likable figure is really great. I'm proud of what she's doing. I know she has a lot of opposition from people who don't think her Let's Move program should be a priority, a national priority. I would say to her, keep moving in the face of the opposition, because what she's doing is visionary. It's a real demonstration of leadership.