Coca-Cola is taking a lot of flak for its new television ad campaign addressing America's obesity epidemic – an epidemic in which sugary sodas are widely fingered as a key culprit.. Launched last week, the ads discuss the beverage giant's efforts to combat obesity, while also insisting that Coke products can be part of a healthy lifestyle. Those claims have been met with widespread skepticism and ridicule from .  and the .  alike, with words like "shameless" and "chutzpah" bandied about. As one satirical parody .  of one of the new ads put it bluntly: "Don't drink Coke – it's killing you, and your family.". All this .  of Coca-Cola's new anti-obesity message reminded us that, more than a century ago, the company actually branded itself a maker of "medicinal tonic." Let's go back in time for a moment, shall we?. This 1907 magazine ad states that Coke "relieves fatigue without undue stimulation [and] aids digestion. Its use after exercise is especially healthful.". ... And .  exercise, too, apparently. (Golf, anyone?). Other ads promised Coca-Cola would have the power to revitalize both the mind and body.. Studying? Shopping? Sight-seeing? Coke offered to "revive and refresh" and relieve your fatigue.. But perhaps the most disturbing claim, at least to our modern minds, comes from this vintage ad not for Coca-Cola but its forebear, Vin Mariani – a Bordeaux wine containing six milligrams of cocaine per fluid ounce. (That's one way to get a baby to sleep through the night.). In his unauthorized history of the company,.  author .  recounts that Coca-Cola inventor John Pemberton released his famous drink in 1886 as a nonalcoholic beverage inspired by this coca wine.. In comparison to these old ads, the health claims in Coca-Cola's new anti-obesity ad campaign seem almost harmless. (OK, plenty of food advocates would. .). One of the new .  focuses on outlining the ways in which Coca-Cola is helping people consume in moderation, including creating "portion control"-sized cans and adding easy-to-find calorie labels.. But Coca-Cola advertising hasn't completely lost its sense of the ridiculous, as evidenced in this second . , which presents viewers with fun, easy ways to burn off the 140 "happy" calories in a can of Coke. Among the suggestions? Laugh out loud! Do a victory dance!. I did the . , and by my calculations, you'd have to laugh for about two hours to burn off one can of Coke. So better get chuckling! Excuse me while I go cue up that .  video.