 — Need to chill out? Give tai chi a chance.. A study just published in the .  encourages regular practice of the Chinese mind-body exercise for the elderly. Even if you haven't yet reached . , it wouldn't hurt to get a head start on perfecting your form.. According to the findings, tai chi improves muscle strength, particularly in the knees, without worsening what's known as arterial compliance — healthy expansion and contraction of the arteries.. This is important, researchers explain in their report, because past studies have linked strength-training exercises that improve muscle function, like tai chi does, to a decline in arterial compliance. Stiff, non-compliant arteries can lead to high blood pressure and . . That's a problem. But this new research gives tai chi the seal of approval.. For the study, researchers recruited 65 elderly people from Hong Kong. The older participants were assigned to one of two groups. One group of 29 people (whose average age was 73) had practiced tai chi for at least an hour and a half per week for three years. The 36 members of the second group (who were 71, on average) had zero tai chi experience. The tai chi group members' arterial compliance scored as much as 44 percent higher than those in the non-practicing group. Those participants also showed better knee strength and vascular health, in addition to healthier blood pressure and pulse readings.. This isn't the first study to highlight the . . Research has shown that the meditation-meets-movement practice betters . , coordination, and relaxation, and offers a number of other health perks. Practicing tai chi can relieve knee pain, prevent falls in the elderly, help people sleep better, and improve overall mental and physical health after stroke.. Specifically related to heart health, a study published in April 2011 in the .  found that heart failure patients in a tai chi exercise program saw improved mood and quality of life.. Experts suggest practicing tai chi with a qualified instructor to start. Once you've learned all the right moves from a master, including how to do them safely, you can practice pretty much anywhere.