As the Kama Sutra — that ancient Indian book on sexuality — shows us, sexual activity is a pursuit of infinite variety. There are hundreds of ways in which male and female bodies can come together for mutual pleasure. If you're in a heterosexual relationship, knowing a variety of .  positions can help you be a better and more inventive lover for your partner.. That answer is different for every couple. "Every two people fit together differently," says . , a sex therapist and the director of psychological services at the New Jersey Center for Sexual Wellness in Bedminster. "Experiment and see what works, but don't get stuck too early with any one position because over time that will get boring.". There are nonphysical factors to consider, too. Take . , for example. For many people, especially women, intimacy can lead to better sexual experiences because partners are comfortable and trusting enough to ask for what they desire and to try new things.. It's a simple sex position: The woman lies on her back with her legs spread and her knees bent slightly. The man lies between her legs and guides his .  into her vagina, supporting his body weight with his arms or elbows.. The problem with this sexual position is that the missionary position is not as good at delivering pleasure to women. The man's pelvis does stimulate the clitoris in this position, and it offers great intimacy through face-to-face contact. But the angle of the penis does not allow for deep penetration or stimulation of the .  (a location on the front wall of the vagina that's believed by some experts to be a stimulus for orgasm in women). Some women also complain that this sex position doesn't provide enough clitoral stimulation to achieve orgasm.. While the missionary position is a popular sexual position in the United States, it is not that popular worldwide. Alfred Kinsey's .  on sexuality in the mid-20th century found that as many as 70 percent of U.S. men reported using just this sex position, to the exclusion of all others.. "In most cultures, it is . the most used position," says . , a certified sexuality educator and professor emerita at Rutgers University in New Jersey. "Cultures would laugh when they saw the missionaries having sex in that position. That's why it was called the missionary position.". If you are looking to spice up your sexual experience and enjoy better sex, try some of the following sex positions.. "Woman on top is better for women who want to be in control and guide the stimulation," Dr. Leiblum says. The angle of the penis allows for deep penetration and G-spot stimulation, and the male partner can contribute to the woman's pleasure by using his fingers to rub her clitoris. Plus, men are very responsive to visual stimuli, and this sex position allows the man to lie back and watch his female partner.. In this sex position, the man lies on his back, and the woman faces him and kneels, straddling his pelvis and guiding his penis into her vagina. She can sit up or lie down on him. She also can move in an up-and-down motion or roll her hips around.. Also referred to as doggy style, this is the best sex position for deep penetration of the vagina. It gives the man freedom to thrust his pelvis hard and fast, and allows him to caress much of the woman's body. The position also allows for good G-spot stimulation.. The woman kneels on all fours, supporting herself with her hands and knees. The man crouches behind her and enters her vagina from the rear.. One drawback: Some women complain that this sex position is too impersonal because there's no face-to-face contact.. This position allows for slow and romantic sex. The partners are facing each other and can kiss and caress each other during lovemaking. The sex position is relaxing and doesn't require a lot of stamina from either person. It's also good for people who are . . "If one or both of the partners is extremely heavy, side to side may be better so that no one partner has to bear the weight," Leiblum says. There is good clitoral stimulation in this position, but penetration is limited.. During side-by-side sex, the man and woman lie on their sides, facing each other. The woman lifts her top leg so the man can insert his penis. She can then wrap the leg around his waist or lay it across his top leg.. If you’ve been using the same sexual position with the same partner for some time, maybe it’s time for a little variety, which, it’s been said, is the spice of life. Keep brainstorming. communicating, and experimenting.