Just because you’re having your period doesn't mean you have to forego sexual activity. For some women, .  during .  can be even more pleasurable than at other times of the month.. The .  lessens during your period, and . . Plus, a .  concluded that sexual activity may reduce .  and cluster .  pain for some.. “Sex is a normal part of life and should be enjoyed by all women,” says . , an ob/gyn at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. “Basically, ensuring you have good contraception and .  (STI) prevention throughout the menstrual cycle should make it even more safe and enjoyable.”. But before having sex, make sure you understand the risks of STIs, other infections, and pregnancy — even during your period.. Here’s what you need to know about having safe sex during your period.. It’s crucial to practice safe sex while you’re having your period because you could still get or transmit an STI, . , during this time, according to the . . The virus may be present in menstrual blood. Therefore, doctors strongly encourage using a condom to decrease this risk.. , a clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Northwestern University’s Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago, says that anecdotally speaking, there are two reasons for this risk. “Any bodily fluid can carry HIV or [other] STIs, and [during your period], the cervix opens slightly, which might allow viruses to pass through,” she says. “My message to women is you’re not off the hook as far as using protection.”. You may also be more prone to some infections in general at this time. Your .  maintains a pH level of 3.8 to 4.5 throughout the month, according to the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). But during menstruation, that level rises because of the higher pH level of blood, and .  more rapidly.. Symptoms of a vaginal yeast infection are more likely to occur the week before your menstrual period, and intercourse during this time can exacerbate symptoms. But clear evidence is lacking for any increased risk of getting a .  if you have sex during your period.. There's also the dreaded UTI. “Some women can be more prone to having .  after intercourse,” says Dr. Coleman. “This is most likely related to bacteria being able to easily travel to the bladder with intercourse, but it may happen at any point during the menstrual cycle.”. Yes, you can get pregnant when you have your period, especially if you have a shorter menstrual cycle (21 to 24 days) and you have have sex toward the end of your period. Sperm can remain viable in your vagina for up to five days, so pregnancy is possible, and it’s important to continue to use . .. You’re less likely to need lubricants if you engage in intercourse during menstruation, because menstrual discharge tends to provide enough lubrication. If you do need a lubricant, then “water-based lubricants are widely available and safe both for sex and for condoms,” says ob/gyn . , a clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the George Washington University School of Medicine in Washington, D.C. “Silicone and hybrid lubricants that are water-based and silicone-based are likewise safe for both sex and condoms. Oil-based lubricants, especially mineral oil-based lubricants, can deteriorate condoms — increasing the risk of breakage — and are not recommended with latex condoms,” he says.. If you experience symptoms such as cramping, feelings of sadness, or .  during your period, having sex at this time may be beneficial. Dr. Streicher says that because orgasms release .  — feel-good .  like .  and dopamine — in theory they could also decrease some period symptoms. “There’s no harm in trying,” she says.. Women who have . , on the other hand, may experience more pain and other symptoms when they have their period, as well as pain that occurs with sexual activity or . . However, treatments are available, and . . Talk to your doctor as soon as possible; the earlier you speak up, the sooner you can feel better and enjoy sex again.. You may feel more sexually aroused and sensitive during this time of the month because of the changes in your hormone levels. Some women experience an increased feeling of congestion in the pelvic area, which can also . . But for some women, this extra sensitivity may make it uncomfortable to have sex during this time. (If you don’t like having sex when you have your period, there are .  that can make your period shorter, lighter, and/or less frequent, or even eliminate your period altogether.) Remember that there’s nothing shameful or dirty about having your period — it’s totally natural, and there's nothing wrong with having sex during that time of the month. The bottom line is to make sure that both you and your partner are comfortable with the situation. “Don’t assume anything,” Dr. Simon says. “Open questions with honest answers beforehand are paramount.”