Is this your scenario? You started .  with antidepressants only to find that you’re still wrestling with a number of annoying side effects or tricky-to-treat symptoms. If so, you're not alone.. About 14 percent of adults ages 55 to 64 were prescribed an antidepressant in the past 30 days, according to the . , and each person's reaction can be unique. The side effects, strength, and efficacy of the same drug may be drastically different for you than for someone else.. “Some people are exquisitely sensitive to antidepressant side effects,” says psychiatrist . , an associate professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at the University of Washington in Seattle. Others can take just about any medication without running into problems.. The good news: If you're encountering problems, most of them can be easily managed or reversed. Here are the most common nuisances of .  — and how to resolve them.. During the first few days on your new prescription, you might find that you have a headache. All .  have the potential to give you a headache for a few days, says psychiatrist . , associate professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences and director of the mood and anxiety disorders program at the Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta.. He suggests taking Tylenol (acetaminophen) to help, adding that this symptom usually gets better within the first week or two.. People taking .  (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors) might find that they have nausea, diarrhea, or constipation. You can manage nausea by taking the medications with food, Dr. Dunlop says.. Make sure you're eating enough fiber and drinking enough fluids; you also might consider taking an over-the-counter medication for constipation or diarrhea. Like headaches, these symptoms typically go away early in your treatment.. A small number of people find that their medication causes shakiness or tremors. “These can persist and can prevent people from continuing with their medication,” Dunlop says. If you develop this symptom, contact your doctor to discuss changing your dose, or the drug itself.. Of all antidepressant problems, this may be the thorniest to untangle. If you’re continuing to experience depression symptoms despite taking an antidepressant, there are a number of possible explanations to consider:. Anywhere from 28 to 60 percent of people who take antidepressant medication experience emotional blunting — a feeling of being depleted of all emotions, including the good ones, according to research published in 2013 in the . .. But you don’t have to lose your ability to feel joy just to get rid of the pain: Emotional blunting is best resolved by switching to a different class of antidepressants, adding a second medication, or . , Combs says.. Some depression treatments, notably those that involve a combination of drugs, do put you at risk for weight gain, according to a review from 2015 in . . Taking .  and .  together, for instance, showed a greater likelihood of an increase in body mass index (BMI) than single-drug therapy, according to a study published in 2015 in . .. If you have a history of being overweight, you’re more likely to gain while on an antidepressant — “so choose an antidepressant that is weight-neutral,” Combs advises. If that’s not an option, she emphasizes getting counseled in .  and exercise. An added bonus? The .  (NIMH) notes that exercise can be an important part of your treatment.. Many people struggling with depression . , but some antidepressants can also make it difficult to respond sexually. Doctors don’t always warn their patients about this effect, Combs says, and it can be very frustrating. Some people are willing to accept it as a temporary trade-off for successful depression treatment, but most people want solutions.. Consider switching antidepressants, trying a different dosing schedule, taking other medications to improve sexual response, or experimenting with new ways to increase arousal. Testosterone might be a solution for some people who have lost some interest in sex but need to stay on their antidepressant medication, according to research published in 2014 in . .. , sleeping too much, and other changes to your sleep cycle are all . , according to the NIMH. And when you can’t get a good night’s sleep, it can make it even harder to treat your depression effectively.. “Some antidepressants are identified as activating, and some are sedating,” Combs explains. Finding the right match for you is key. A sedating antidepressant, for instance, might be a good bet for someone who is having problems falling asleep. It’s also important to look at other lifestyle choices that might be affecting your sleep, like your environment, physical activity (or lack of it), caffeine consumption late in the day, napping during the day, and alcohol use.. Once you start feeling better, you’ll probably want to .  — but, Dunlop says, you need to be stable on antidepressants for at least six months first, to reduce the risk of experiencing another bout of depression in the future.. Although antidepressants are only temporary for most people, you should never stop taking them (or any prescription medication) without the guidance of a doctor. Usually the best approach is to reduce the dosage very gradually — stopping “cold turkey” could result in unwanted side effects, Dunlop adds.. With depression, there’s always a risk of . , but these can also be a side effect of antidepressants, though a rare one. A Finnish study published in 2014 in .  found that the risk for suicide is not significantly increased by the use of antidepressants, although other factors of depression, such as insomnia, do contribute to suicide risk.. Regardless of what might be prompting suicidal thoughts, call your doctor immediately if you start to experience worsening depression symptoms, including suicidal thoughts or .  or others, Dunlop advises.. If you’re running into a problem with your antidepressants, there’s likely a solution — so don’t ignore it. Get to the bottom of it.