Stocked with sticky-sweet desserts, fresh baked goods and so many of your favorite foods, the supermarket can be a destination for diet disaster. We visit the grocery store an average of 2.2 times a week, which gives us plenty of opportunities to pick up items that can pack on pounds. While shedding 30 pounds and counting, I've learned a few things about navigating the pitfalls of food shopping. Culled from my own experience as well as advice from registered dietitians, weight-loss professionals and food marketing experts, these tips may help you pass up the pastries the next time you head down those aisles..  Picking through a small, dark produce section with half-empty bins and limp-looking .  could make anyone head for the cookie aisle. Choose a bright, clean market with varied produce and lean meat selections, says Heidi Reichenberger, a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the American Dietetic Association (ADA). If it has a healthy foods section, all the better..  Some consumers make better choices in the evening, after they've eaten dinner and the bakery is closed, while others find they have more resolve in the a.m. hours. When possible, shop at the time that works best for you..  Spending just 10 minutes mapping out your menu for the week will help you stay on track. "If you have the ingredients for healthy meals at home, you probably won't want to order high-cal takeout," says Reichenberger..  If you're sad, mad or generally feeling blah, it's easy to reach for ice cream or chips. Instead, play upbeat music in the car or take a few moments to unwind before entering the supermarket..  Head off the hungries by grabbing a delicious snack or stopping for a small, fat-free frozen yogurt or smoothie before you shop, says Lisa Dorfman, M.S., R.D., a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the American Dietetic Association and CEO of Food Fitness International in Miami. Satisfied shoppers are less likely to be tempted by calorie-laden impulse items..  Children can undermine your best intentions, explains Kenneth Herbst, Ph.D., an assistant professor of food marketing at St. Joseph's University in Philadelphia. "They may not do it by pulling out their wallets, but kids are influential about what you choose to buy." If shopping solo isn't an option, tame the "I want candy" tantrums by taking toys or healthy treats to keep kids occupied. Or give them responsibility for choosing healthy items..  Paying with cash keeps you from splurging on extra items or calories. "If you take only what your shopping list requires or budget allows, you can't buy unnecessary extras," counsels Reichenberger..  Don't assume an item is low-cal just because it's near healthier foods. Store managers know that health-conscious customers have been sticking to the store's perimeter for healthier choices, so they've started placing candy dip next to fruit and fat-laden prepared foods next to lean meat selections. "About half of the foods around the perimeter are no healthier or fresher than foods in the other parts of the store," says Phil Lempert, a.k.a. the Supermarket Guru and author of Being the Shopper: Understanding the Consumer Choice..  The closer a food is to its whole state, the healthier it generally is, says Gay Riley, registered dietitian and founder of NetNutritionist.com, an online nutrition information resource. In the produce department, fill your basket with the most colorful varieties of each food: deep-green romaine lettuce instead of iceberg, red cabbage instead of green. Beat boredom by choosing mangoes or papayas instead of oranges and organic red bananas rather than bananas..  Judge your food choices by the back of the package - the .  label - instead of the sumptuous photos on the front, says Riley. Look for caloric bargains the same way you look for deals on price. Opt for packaged foods, meals and snacks that have two to three grams of fat per 100 calories, which equals about 18 to 27 percent of calories from fat. Since four grams of sugar equals a teaspoon, she recommends bypassing cereal, snacks and other processed foods that have more than five sugar grams a serving. Don't forget to check the ingredients, which are listed in order of most to least, and avoid foods with sugars, sweeteners, bleached flour and hydrogenated fats and oils..  "High-fiber foods generally have fewer calories, but they .  and make you feel more satisfied," Riley says. Great sources include whole grains, beans, peas, lentils and fruit. Look for cereals and breads with two or more grams of fiber a serving. Add beans or peas to casseroles and other dishes to make smaller servings more filling and help you reach the recommended 35 to 50 grams of fiber a day..  Instead of opting for flavorless lowfat or light options, which often have as many calories as their full-fat counterparts, choose foods with rich flavors, such as sharp Cheddar cheese over mild and extra-virgin olive oil over virgin or light varieties. You'll enjoy the flavor while using far less of the product, says Nelda Mercer, M.S., R.D., a registered dietitian and coauthor of High Fit-Low Fat..  Purchase the makings for lighter versions of your favorite takeout dishes. If you crave Mexican food, keep ingredients for vegetarian chili and lowfat chicken fajitas on hand. When you feel like having takeout, whip up one of these satisfying dishes instead. "A rich but healthier spinach lasagna or mock fried chicken can make you feel satisfied, but you're not getting the high amounts of fat, sodium and calories that you would by eating the restaurant version," says Mercer..  . , fruit drinks and even meal-replacement drinks can be bad news for your weight-loss plan. "There's a fair amount of research that says meal-replacement drinks aren't nearly as satisfying as eating a meal," says Sue Moores, M.S., R.D., a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the ADA. "You'll often find yourself back at the table, still hungry." Also bypass soft drinks for sparkling water or seltzer with a splash of citrus, and choose the whole fruit, which will also give you a healthy dose of fiber, over its juice counterpart..  Breakfast eaters tend to have an easier time with weight loss. "They're better able to manage their cravings throughout the day," explains Mercer. The best breakfasts include two or three different food groups, she says. A bag of trail mix that contains ready-to-eat whole-wheat breakfast cereal, nuts and dried fruit coupled with a container of lowfat yogurt or skim or soy milk is a great pick. The carbohydrates will give you energy while the protein will stave off hunger longer..  If you really can't eat just one, pass by the chips, cookies or other foods that tempt you to overindulge. Instead, save those foods for special occasions or buy individual portions, such as single-serving bags of potato chips or individual ice cream bars, so you don't have the option to eat a larger-than-recommended portion, says Mercer..  For quick visits, choose a basket instead of a cart and pick out your heaviest items first. Your arms will get a workout and you won't be inclined to linger..  It's easy to do the "grab and toss" when your cart comes with you. Park your wheels at the end of the aisle and walk back and forth to retrieve the products you want. You'll get more steps in and think twice before grabbing those impulse items..  As you unload your purchases, lift (reinforced) bags to work your biceps while you walk quickly back and forth from the car. You'll increase your heart rate while putting your purchases away..  Instead of tossing meat in the freezer and stuffing cans and boxes in the pantry, organize your shelves, cabinets and refrigerator so that healthier foods are within easy reach and more dangerous options are out of sight..  Use a marker to label boxes and cans with calorie counts or diet exchange numbers. For instance, if you're on Weight Watchers, write the Points per serving on the package. Dividing food into serving sizes can also save time in meal preparation and help you properly judge portions, says Reichenberger..  If you're feeling pressure from the family to stock up on unhealthy options, explain your weight-loss goals and ask for their support. After all, the healthy changes you're making are good for all of you, says Mercer.