 Diminutive actress Mila Kunis, 28, shed a shocking 20 pounds to play a scene-stealing ballerina in last year’s critically acclaimed film . . Now, she’s opening up to .  about the body-altering changes that set in .  the cameras stopped rolling.. “When I got down to 95 pounds, I was muscles, like a little brick house, but skin and bones,” she says. “When I gained it back, it went to completely different areas. All the .  that left my chest went to my side hip, my stomach.”. Her bizarre pattern of weight gain after an extreme loss should serve as a cautionary tale for anyone who favors crash diets, or who wants to force their body down to an unhealthy weight. Andrea N. Giancoli, a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, .  that regaining fat in funky places is not uncommon after drastic weight changes.. "What often happens with extreme weight loss and when you lose weight very quickly is that you lose muscle tissue," she says. "Unfortunately, when we gain the weight back, it comes back as fat.". Research has repeatedly suggested that .  is harmful to the body. A study conducted at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle found that women who yo-yo dieted often — five or more times in 20 years — had a lower level of the immune cells that fight viruses and possibly . . And because crash diets often result in weight .  long-term, these efforts can seriously backfire in other ways. .  published in the .  found that once someone has gained excess weight, the person’s hormones and metabolism fight to keep fat on because the body interprets a low-calorie diet as starvation.. Plus, as Giancoli reminded MSNBC, if you do try to lose weight quickly, it could send your metabolism screeching to a halt.. "You turn down the fire of your body furnace," she says. "But when you go back to eating normally again, that furnace is still turned down to low, therefore you gain weight more easily and you gain it as fat, unless you're really diligent about not overeating and exercising.". As for Kunis, her crash diet continues to serve as a warning: She revealed to .  in 2010 that it took her five months to drop 20 pounds for her role in . , and only five .  to regain it.