We all know the feeling — waking up groggy after not enough .  or poor-quality sleep, only to be slammed with a full day of obligations. It’s only natural to reach for that cup of coffee as a pick-me-up. In fact, according to the National Sleep Foundation’s Sleep in America poll, 43 percent of Americans are “very likely” to consume .  to stay alert during the day.. And new research indicates that your caffeine addiction may well be genetic: Scientists recently discovered that people with certain gene variations drank about 40 extra milligrams of coffee a day — the amount in an 8-ounce can of Diet Coke — compared to people with different versions of the genes.. Whether in coffee, tea, soda, or chocolate, caffeine helps improve alertness and can help you feel more awake by increasing adrenaline levels while lowering the chemicals that encourage sleep. Unfortunately, your daytime jolt of joe might actually be sabotaging your attempts to get a good night’s sleep.. While caffeine can give you a jolt almost immediately, it stays in the body for hours. In fact, it takes six hours for just half of the caffeine ingested to make its way out of the body. This essentially makes any caffeine-filled beverage or food enjoyed after noon a potential culprit in sleep problems.. Anyone getting more than 250 milligrams of caffeine per day (three eight-ounce cups of coffee), which is considered moderate, could be at risk for caffeine-related sleep problems. Symptoms of too much caffeine consumption include . , anxiety, irritability, headaches, nervousness, and rapid heartbeat.. There are two ways to approach reducing your dependence on caffeine. The first is simple: Consume less of it. The second is a more . . “I concentrate on patients achieving better-quality sleep. Sleeping seven to eight hours is enough for most people to solve their sleep problem and not feel the need to jump-start their day,” says David C. Brodner, MD, medical director of the Center for Sleep, Allergy, and Sinus Wellness in Boynton Beach, Fla.. Here are ways to cut down on your caffeine consumption:. Between cutting back on caffeine consumption and getting a better night’s sleep, it is certainly possible to not only survive, but to thrive without a daily caffeine fix.