 You know that guy at work who yells everything he says, even when he’s talking to someone who’s two feet away? Or that girl who’s always on her cell phone gossiping about whatever drama went down with her friend’s boyfriend’s ex-girlfriend the night before? (Hint: If you can’t identify this individual, he/she may be you.). Well, researchers in Japan have come up with a way to, shall we say, restore a little peace and quiet to your day. They call their invention, rather aptly, the “SpeechJammer.”. The SpeechJammer is a device that can stop a person mid-sentence simply by projecting back his or her “own utterances at a delay of a few hundred milliseconds,” a principle known as delayed auditory feedback, or DAF. The theory goes that when we speak, we use the sound of our own voice as a guide — so when “playback” lags, our natural cadence is interrupted, along with the . . (Think about how difficult it is to carry on a conversation when there’s an echo on your phone.) DAF causes no physical or permanent discomfort, but it does confuse the speaker enough to temporarily vex him or her into silence.. Using a directional microphone and speaker on what looks like a black shoebox-size cube atop a short handle, Kazutaka Kurihara, a media interaction researcher at the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, and Koji Tsukada, an assistant professor at Ochanomizu University, were able to harness this technology in a kind of portable (though not very subtle) ray gun. All you have to do is point the device toward the person you want to silence.. One could argue (not wrongly) that this might be considered an infringement on our right to the freedom of speech, but Kurihara and Tsukada say their intention is not to shut people up but to “bring meaningful changes to communication patterns in discussions.”. “It is said that communication is the most important means of . ,” they write in a paper published on arVix, an e-print service operated by Cornell University. “However, there are still many cases in which the negative aspects of speech become a barrier to the peaceful resolution of conflicts, sometimes further harming society.”. Kurihara illustrates one such case in a short video on his personal Web site. In it, a small group of people are working in an office when one of them receives a call on her cell phone and proceeds to disrupt everyone else’s focus with her loud talking. After a bit of time passes and it becomes clear that she has no intention of hanging up, her desk-mate points the SpeechJammer in her direction, thus halting her conversation (at least momentarily) and allowing the rest of her colleagues to resume their jobs.. Interestingly, .  may not be affected — and may even be helped — by having the SpeechJammer used on them. DAF is in fact a known treatment for stuttering, because it forces individuals to speak more slowly and deliberately.