Women with early stage .  often choose a radical mastectomy over less-invasive lumpectomy surgery for fear that the cancer will return. But new research finds more aggressive surgery — removing the entire breast as opposed to only the lump or cancerous growth — won't necessarily lead to a better health outcome.. A new study from Duke Cancer Institute analyzed health outcomes of breast cancer patients, ages 18 to 80, who'd received a .  versus breast-conserving therapy — or lumpectomy — in tandem with radiation for their treatment. Shelly Hwang, MD, of Duke Health's division of surgical oncology, led the study, which was just published in the journal . .. Dr. Hwang and her team analyzed 14 years of patient data from the California Cancer Registry. Among women who had breast cancer, 55 percent received lumpectomy with radiation, and 45 percent had a mastectomy without radiation.. The data showed that, after five years, minimally invasive breast cancer surgery with radiation actually led to better outcomes for breast cancer, and the women were also less likely to have died from other causes, including heart or respiratory disease.. In particular, women over the age of 50 with hormone-sensitive tumors saw the greatest benefit in opting for lumpectomy with radiation. This group was 13 percent less likely to die from breast cancer and 19 percent less likely to die from any other major health conditions after five years than women who had undergone a mastectomy.. "Some women feel like doing more .  is going to get them a better outcome," says Hwang. Based on the results of her research, she adds, "I think better outcomes may come from doing less surgery.". Though .  have been conducted to weigh the benefits and drawbacks of both surgeries, Hwang says much of the research is up to three decades old — when breast cancer surgery was done differently — and largely outdated.. Len Lichtenfeld, MD, deputy chief medical officer at the American Cancer Society, has worked in the oncology field since the 1970s. He says surgical treatments for breast cancer have evolved to become as least disruptive as possible to a patient's health and self-image. Decades ago, he says, women who were believed to have breast cancer faced a traumatic and disfiguring recovery. "Whenever we had a woman who might have cancer we'd take her to the operating room, and if she woke up with a breast she'd say 'Oh I don't have cancer,'" he says. "The philosophy back then was to take out as much tissue as you could.". Before lumpectomy became the gold-standard early-stage breast cancer treatment, women who underwent surgery usually opted to have a part of the breast removed — a little more than a lump and much less than the entire breast. But 5 to 10 years ago, Lichtenfeld began to notice a shift in attitudes about mastectomies. More women with early-stage breast cancer wanted to have mastectomies, and more surgeons were insisting it was the right course of treatment. Many experts speculate that, while having a breast removed is traumatic for some patients, it's also psychologically reassuring for women who fear the cancer will recur.. Typically the size of the tumor influences a doctor's recommendation and the patient's decision. In Hwang's study, the older the woman, the more likely she was to opt for mastectomy if her tumor was greater than 2 centimeters in size; 2 centimeters is the cut-off between stage 1 and stage 2 breast cancer.. Several factors, including improved reconstructive surgery techniques, may contribute to a woman's decision to have a mastectomy versus a less invasive surgery. Some women who don't have access to radiation therapy because they live in rural areas far from suitable medical facilities may also opt to have a mastectomy, says Lichtenfeld.. There has also been a shift in social acceptance of mastectomy. These days, celebrities undergoing treatment for breast cancer frequently announce their plans to have drastic surgeries, almost in defiance of breast-obsessed Hollywood. Last fall, .  the 24-year-old Miss America contestant representing Washington, D.C., publicly announced her plans to undergo a double mastectomy, also defying the beauty industry she works in.. In some instances, Lichtenfeld says, a woman's own anatomy may help guide the decision. A small-breasted woman with a typically sized cancer, may have a better cosmetic outcome if she opts to have a mastectomy with breast reconstructive surgery.. "Women should not be led to believe that mastectomy is a better option," says Lichtenfeld. "It's been a little discouraging or difficult to understand why that's happening or accept that it's happening.". Further clinical research that demonstrates overall positive health outcomes may encourage patients to seek less invasive treatments, says Lichtenfeld.