 American women with HIV shouldn't breastfeed their babies, regardless of low levels of the virus and antiviral treatment, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) cautioned.. The only way to completely prevent HIV transmission through human milk is not to breastfeed, a policy statement from the group pointed out in the February issue of . .. This guideline breaks from the strong AAP stance in favor of breastfeeding for women without HIV infection.. It also differs from World Health Organization recommendations for poor regions of the world, where infant formula feeding typically isn't feasible and malnutrition and infectious disease are bigger threats.. That guideline recommends exclusive breastfeeding through age 6 months, then breastfeeding with complimentary foods through 12 months, together with antiretroviral prophylaxis for mother or child to reduce HIV transmission risk.. Without prophylaxis, the risk of infection for the baby is around 1% per week in the first 4 to 6 weeks of life, then about 0.2% per week for the duration of breastfeeding, translating to a cumulative transmission risk of 14% in one study.. With 6 months of antiretroviral prophylaxis, the risk dropped to 1% to 5% in studies of African mothers.. Although a low risk, "transmission can occur despite undetectable maternal plasma RNA concentrations," noted Lynne Mofenson, MD, of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development in Rockville, Md., and colleagues in the AAP statement.. For families with access to clean water and affordable infant formula, any transmission risk outweighs the benefits of breastfeeding in this setting, it argued.. The transmission risk is higher with acute maternal infection, mastitis or other breast abnormalities; high viral load levels or low CD4 cell counts in the mother; and mixed formula and breast feeding.. Women suspected to have an acute HIV infection shouldn't breastfeed their child until HIV infection is ruled out. Pumping and discarding the milk meanwhile may help maintain its supply.. If an HIV-infected woman with repeatedly undetectable HIV viral loads on antiretroviral therapy chooses to breastfeed despite intensive counseling, she wouldn't automatically qualify for a referral to Child Protective Services.. In such a case, the document recommended that the pediatrician consult and coordinate with the mother's HIV specialist to carefully monitor her viral levels and treatment adherence.. Antimicrobal agents should be given promptly if the woman develops clinical mastitis. The baby should also be monitored for HIV status through 6 months after weaning.. Flash heating breast milk to pasteurize it doesn't eradicate HIV cells. Pre-chewing food for infants has also been associated with transmission of the infection in some cases.. If women are worried about affording infant formula, pediatricians should help them find financial support, such as the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children.. "In the United States, where there is access to clean water and affordable replacement feeding, the AAP continues to recommend complete avoidance of breastfeeding as the best and safest infant feeding option for HIV-infected mothers, regardless of maternal viral load and antiretroviral therapy," the statement concluded.. Source: 