Palm Springs with Frank Sinatra. Colorado with Gerald Ford. Aaron Spelling and Nancy Reagan as family friends. Nancy Davis' days were glamorous and full when she got the diagnosis that would change her life.. “I was diagnosed [with . ] 21 years ago," recalls Davis, the daughter of former oil billionaire and film studio owner Marvin Davis.. "At that time there was no known cause, no cure, no drugs on the market. I went to a doctor and he said, ‘go home and go to bed’,” she says. “I was 33. And I had a lot of plans for my life ... All of a sudden I felt like this person came and cut me down and said no life anymore.”. Initially, Davis' .  and a frantic search for second opinions. “I lived in denial for another month and thought if I get enough second opinions somebody in fact will tell me I don’t have this disease called multiple sclerosis. I didn’t want to have it,” says Davis.. And then, gradually, she began to research the condition that currently affects 2.1 million people worldwide. She turned what she learned into a proactive (and unconventional) plan for living with her own disease. Then she confronted what she saw as a somewhat haphazard effort to find a cure for MS and put her connections and fortune to work helping to organize and pay for MS research — an effort that has contributed to the development of seven of the nine MS drugs now on the market.. "[I] think when people tell you they're taking your life away and you're not going to be able to do anything, you want to get it all in while you still can 'cause you kind of have this fear that tomorrow I'm going to wake up and not be able to do anything," Davis shares. "I think it stimulates you more to do those things that you might have not wanted to do .... I have this little thing hanging over my head. It's telling me to . .". At the time of her diagnosis, Davis was a 33-year-old mother of three leading, by all appearances, a charmed life. Her father — who .  magazine said was worth $5.8 billion in 2004 — had just sold Pebble Beach Golf Links, one of the most beautiful golf courses in the world, for $841 million, and Davis was one of the beneficiaries. Elizabeth Taylor was her neighbor, and she is godmother to Nicole Ritchie. MS — specifically, a 1991 diagnosis of relapsing/remitting multiple sclerosis — was definitely NOT part of the script.. An autoimmune disorder, MS typically lies dormant for years before causing the immune system to attack healthy tissue. It usually surfaces between the ages of 20 and 40 and develops in more than twice as many women than men, according to the . . Symptoms range from blurred vision, fatigue, and pain to cognitive decline, tremors, and paralysis.. Davis believes her disease was activated by a skiing accident and the stress of a bad marriage. . .. “I blamed everything on the ski accident, of course, because that was easier,” she adds. “I had my knee surgery, and right after the ski accident, I started having my MS symptoms ... It was this thing that was just lying in my body that I didn’t know about.”. After getting over the initial shock and depression of what she took to be a death sentence — Davis recalls telling her doctors, "You basically just took my life away and [have] given me no hope” — she learned to live with the disease, including periods when it takes a turn for the worse.. “Those days are scary. It’s very hard to function. There’s a huge amount of exhaustion, . . There are times when you have no feeling in lots of parts of your body. If you lose the feeling in your hands, you can’t drive, you can’t write, you can’t do a lot of things,“ she reveals.. "The disease is very unpredictable and it takes turns, and if you have it one way, it might completely switch on you and have different things ... so no people with MS ever have the same exact situation," she says. "If you have certain symptoms, it doesn’t mean these are always going to be your exact . .". Based on her personal research and experience, Davis, a poised, polished West Coast blond, currently subscribes to a . . "I think that MS is so different for everybody and you have to find that thing that works for you and empower yourself to make that big choice," she says. "I think a positive attitude for anybody with any disease is really important. When you always feel that you're the victim and you're not willing to take the steps to make yourself feel better, you're not going to do well.”. Homeopathic treatment is met with much skepticism by most physicians. “Just because something is natural, if it’s not studied, it might be bad for this disease," says Karen Blitz-Shabbir, MD, director of the MS center at the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Cushing Neuroscience Institute in Manhasset, NY. "We don’t know if it negatively impacts the efficacy of ... medicine. We don’t know if it enhances your immune system. We don’t know. There are no studies on all these natural therapies," Dr. Blitz-Shabbir asserts.. Davis believes homeopathy has worked well for her. At 45, she welcomed twins into her family. She has also launched her own jewelry line, Peace and Love Jewelry, and has authored the book .  which chronicles her MS journey. She has not had any flare ups for the past year.. But beyond taking care of herself, Davis has devoted much of her energy to jump-starting the search for new drugs and MS treatments.. In researching her own disease, Davis was confronted with a lack of available information on MS, and discovered that scientists involved in the search for cures didn't always communicate with each other — particularly when their findings were disappointing — and sometimes replicated the same research. She decided to take matters into her own hands.. "There has to be hope, and so a light bulb went off in my head and I thought if I can make a difference, the best thing I can do is have all the best doctors work as a team to never duplicate each other's research and communicate every month about everything going on and we will get there quicker," exclaims Davis.. "Everybody thinks that doctors communicate. And they do after they've had a successful study. Ninety percent of all studies end up with a negative result. The negative is as important as the positive," she stresses.. Davis established her own foundation in 1993, . , that sponsors the star-studded Race to Erase MS gala, forum, and symposium each May — it's represented by the color orange — and this year, the foundation will honor rock royalty Sharon Osbourne and her son, . .. "We're going to honor Jack and Sharon this year at our Race to Erase MS," says Davis. "I really feel like they embody what people you're honoring should be all about and are really forcefully trying to change the whole landscape of MS.". Davis' organization garners a tremendous amount of celebrity support, from Tommy Hilfiger and Avril Lavigne to Stevie Wonder and . . "We have such a wonderful support system in the Hollywood community that comes together, and really helps us year after year," Davis says. “They want to make sure that they're part of something that's going to make a difference ... I'm so grateful that they're giving that time and tone. It helps raise the profile of what we're doing," she adds.. To date, Davis’ charity has raised over $30 million. "Part of what we’re trying to do is help bring public awareness to understanding what MS is," she proclaims.. With all of her success, Davis still remains grounded and thankful. “You know, I'm the luckiest person living today with MS. When doctors look at my MRI they say I shouldn't really be walking," she says. "I have my black belt, I ski, I'm now a .  and I have a jewelry business and I run a charity full time and I'm living a full time life.". But most importantly, Davis asserts, "The dream is I have to find a cure for MS.". Proceeds from the gala fund Davis' Center Without Walls program, which spearheads new medical discoveries for MS treatment. The foundation brings together the best and brightest minds from around the country — including experts at Harvard, Yale, and Johns Hopkins, to name a few — and recruits and funds young, new scientists and their research.. "Young researchers have learned medicine in a very different way than older doctors who are respected," Davis asserts. "MS is changing. It is fast. It's fast and furious. Amazing young doctors are really on the cusp of all these things.". Of the many .  as a result of her foundation's efforts, Davis says, "I think it’s amazing, and I'm constantly talking to patients who are on these medicines. They work really well. And different medicines are right for different patients with different types of MS." She is confident that more treatments will be found, and that the future holds a "reality of being able to treat most anybody.". But at the same time, Davis stresses the importance of patients being accountable for their health.. "A doctor can't read your mind, and it's your job because its your body. You're responsible for it, for taking notes and telling your doctor everything that your are feeling ... It's really important that people empower themselves to know their own body."