As numerous demographic reports have shown, Americans are waiting longer to marry and . . According to a 2011 report by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the birthrate for women over 40 rose by 6 percent between 2007 and 2009. And such statistics only seem to confirm what you’ll see on a weekend stroll through many towns and cities across the country: more and more graying folks pushing strollers or playing ball with young kids in the park.. These 40-something (and older) parents sure look happy. But are they? A new study by researchers from the University of California San Francisco Institute for Health and Aging and the Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences finds that, yes, generally they are — except in one important respect. They wish they’d had kids five to 10 years earlier.. The UCSF study examined 46 couples and 15 single women, all of whom used .  to conceive their first child. All of the women were aged 40 or older when they gave birth. The participants were interviewed on several occasions between 2009 and 2011 regarding their thoughts on being older parents.. As the study authors write in a summary of their findings, published online in the journal . , “Most women and men believed that childbearing later in life resulted in advantages for themselves and their families.” These advantages of advanced age include: more financial security, more flexible work schedules, and increased . . However, the older parents also reported disadvantages, such as difficulty conceiving (thus leading them to try IVF), lack of overall .  to devote to parenting, and concern about having less of their lifetime left to spend with their kids.. These disadvantages appear to have weighed heavily on the parents’ minds, such that “in hindsight the majority of participants identified the optimal age for first-time parenting as 5–10 years earlier than they had conceived,” the study authors write. The researchers go on to say that for those in the study group, becoming a parent in one’s thirties “was imagined to maximize the financial and emotional advantages of later parenting while minimizing the impact of age-related infertility, diminished energy, anticipated health issues and the social stigma of appearing too old to parent.”. Interestingly, as the years go by, the average American woman appears to be slowly but surely taking the advice of the UCSF study participants to heart: the National Center for Health Statistics reports that the average age of first-time U.S. moms in 1970 was 21.4; by 2006 the average age had jumped to 26. As for dads, according to the latest data available from the National Center for Health Statistics (based on research from 2002), mean age at the birth of their first child among men 15 to 44 was 25.1.