Before you reach for that stick of butter, consider a healthier alternative. Cooking oil can be a tasty addition to many dishes, and is healthier than butter and other solid fats. With so many vegetable oil and nut oil flavors to choose from, you'll never run out of healthy cooking options.. Liquid cooking oil is a better option than butter or margarine, but some types of cooking oil are healthier than others. What makes a cooking oil healthy or unhealthy is the amount and type(s) of fat it contains. Healthy cooking oils are high in monounsaturated fats, which are some of the healthiest types of fats and may help lower blood cholesterol levels, according to . . Cooking oils may also contain polyunsaturated fats, which may improve heart health, Harvard notes.. Start your cooking oil selection with plant-based oils like:. Some oils contain relatively higher levels of . , which are less healthy than mono- and polyunsaturated fat. . notes that replacing saturated fat with mono- and polyunsaturated fat may help reduce the risk of . .. Oils with higher saturated fat include:. In general, keep the amount of saturated fats you eat to a minimum; check the labels before you buy any cooking oil to see what types of fat it contains. You also want to avoid any oil-based products with trans fats and hydrogenated oils — which are even worse for you than saturated fats, according to Harvard. In fact, they’re so bad for your health that .  as a food additive.. Certain types of cooking oil are best when used for specific styles of . , or when you're preparing certain foods. Think about the flavor of the oil and consider what it might best complement. For instance, nutty cooking oils go well in rich .  with grilled meats, while a lighter tasting olive oil is a good complement to fish sautéed with . . Sesame oil tastes great in an Asian-inspired dish and lightly drizzled on top of an Asian salad.. You don't always have to cook in oil — there are other options that are even lighter in calories.. Try these alternatives if you're watching calories:. A variety of heart-healthy cooking oils can give your meal great flavor. Experiment with low-calorie sautés or marinades; if you avoid frying foods or using heavy amounts of oil, nut or vegetable oil adds taste .  valuable nutrition to any meal. And remember: A little oil goes a long way.