“Don’t tramp dirt into the house.” “All you watch is filth!” “You’re not going to eat the dinner I slaved over all day?”. Sound familiar? Though, to some, it may sound like a scenario between a high-strung parent and her wayward child — this probably .  rings a bell if you’re . .. Nagging may be the most common issue in marriages today, according to a recent .  article entitled “. ,” which takes a look at the form of fussing — and experts say it actually leads to more breakups than . . And research published in the .  shows that married couples who become unhappy five years into the relationship start to increase the amount of nagging in the relationships by about 20%.. By why do we heckle our honeys like so? "We have a perception that we won't get what we want from the other person, so we feel we need to keep asking in order to get it," Scott Wetzler, a psychologist and vice chairman of the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Montefiore Medical Center in New York, told . . He says some people nag because they’re .  or bordering on obsessive — others fuss because their resistant partner makes it nearly impossible not to.. If you think that women are responsible for most of the nagging in marriages, you’re probably right, according to the article. But that doesn’t mean men don’t do their fair share of pestering. “Women are more likely to nag, largely because they are conditioned to feel more responsible for managing home and family life,” the article reads. “And they tend to be more sensitive to early signs of problems in a relationship. When women ask for something and don't get a response, they are quicker to realize something is wrong. The problem is that by asking repeatedly, they make things worse.”. No matter who’s doing the finger-wagging, it can be extremely perilous to a relationship. Howard Markman, PhD, a professor of psychology at the University of Denver, explained to .  that when the nagging leads to constant fighting .  the nagging, it can spell trouble — potentially even . . But there’s good news: Couples can learn how to nix the nagging.. To help you have a fuss-free relationship, we dug up a few . , PhD, author of . :