It's not just about shedding those pregnancy pounds: Being a mom to young kids can continue to take a toll on your waistline, according to a study published in the journal . . Researchers found that new moms had a higher body mass index (BMI), consumed an average of 368 more calories a day, and exercised an average of 1.5 fewer hours a week than women without children.. The results probably aren't shocking to any sleep-deprived, overscheduled mom, who's likely too exhausted or busy with diaper changes, piles of laundry, and other parenting duties to find the time to exercise, and may be more prone to over-snacking for extra energy. But it's important to carve out time for exercise, both for your own health and to start setting a good example as a healthy .  for your kids.. Even though it may feel like the last thing you have time for, exercise benefits busy moms in many ways, notes Erin McGill, MA, a certified personal trainer and manager of training and development at the National Academy of Sports Medicine in Mesa, Ariz. Regular workouts for women can help you lose weight, improve muscle tone, and increase energy levels, making it easier to cope with parenting duties. Incorporating physical activity into your day can also help you better manage stress.. If you've been putting fitness on the backburner, it's not too late to turn things around. And there are lots of ways to work exercise into your daily activities without having to set foot in the gym.. You don't need to spend hours at the gym to benefit from exercise.. "It is recommended that people get in at least 20 minutes of physical activity a day," says McGill, adding that there are many ways you can meet your .  outside of the gym.. Your goal should be to get your heart elevated for at least 20 minutes each day- more if you want to see weight loss or improvements in your physical appearance. You can alternate between cardiovascular exercises, such as walking, jogging, cycling, and swimming, and resistance training. Even running around with your kids counts. "Moms have a lot of opportunities to be physically active because they have kids in their lives," says McGill.. Here are some ways to incorporate a workout program into your . :. It can be difficult for .  to get the exercise they need, but if you find time to focus on yourself, your entire family will benefit.