 What is . , really? If you’re smack-dab in the middle of a month-long slump, does that make you depressed? And what if you recently lost a loved one? You may certainly feel extreme sadness, hopelessness, and perhaps even a loss of motivation. But is it .  depression?. Scientists, doctors, and blue individuals may never stop debating over the definition of this complex mental health condition — but when in doubt, they can all rely on the .  (DSM), a thick reference book for mental health professionals that identifies and classifies every single mental disorder, from depression to gender identity disorder.. Currently, the American Psychiatric Association (APA) is working on an updated version of the DSM, which will be known as DSM-5 and is expected to be published in 2013. The existing “psychiatrist’s bible” — the DSM-4 — has been around since 1994.. One proposal for DSM-5 — to continue to exclude bereavement, or grief, as part of the depression definition — is being met with controversy (and it’s not the only DSM-revision firestorm; last week, the debate over an updated . , which would create one diagnostic category instead of three subtypes, made headlines).. The current definition of depression leaves out .  in recognition of the fact “that depressive symptoms are sometimes normal in recently bereaved individuals,” write New York University researchers Jerome Wakefield and Michael First in a recent report that looked at whether the exclusion is valid.. Bereavement is left out so someone experiencing the typical symptoms of grief doesn’t end up with an unwarranted diagnosis of depression.. However, some experts believe that excluding grief from the DSM-5 is a big mistake. “Depression can and does occur in the wake of bereavement, it can be severe and debilitating, and calling it by any other name is doing a disservice to people who may require more careful attention,” Sidney Zisook, a psychiatrist at the University of California, San Diego, told . .. David J. Kupfer, PhD, agrees: “If someone is suffering from severe depression symptoms one or two months after a loss or a death, and I can’t make a diagnosis of depression — well, that is not being clinically proactive. That person may then not get the treatment they need,” he told the. .. There has been research on whether grief should indeed be diagnosable (and therefore covered by insurance), and the DSM-5 Mood Disorders Work Group, the part of the APA that has proposed eliminating the “bereavement exclusion,” claims the research proves that it’s no longer justified.. In turn, Drs. Wakefield and First took a look at the research (including a 2007 study that found that grief-triggered depression is similar to actual depression and a 2010 review of ensuing research). Their conclusion? To prevent false-positive diagnoses, grief should indeed be excluded as part of the depression definition in the DSM 5.. However, they have proposed some improvements in the definition. For example: adding a provisional modifier that could help diagnose someone with extended grief-related depression — lasting more than two months — and considering a patient’s history of major depression.. The APA jury's still out on the grief-depression issue —their decision should come sometime in the next year. Meanwhile, if you're grieving a major loss, don't hesitate to seek advice from your doctor if you think your grief may have turned into something more.