 — You may think the United States is a . -obsessed nation — and you would be right. But statistics say we're certainly not alone in our quest for eternal youth and beauty.. The United States comes out on top with about 3.3 million total .  performed in 2010, according to data from the . . (That includes surgeries and nonsurgical procedures, like Botox injections). But by percentage of total population, says . , South Korea wins the prize, with about 360,000 procedures done by about 49 million. Other countries that topped the list of surgeries by population? Greece, Italy, Brazil, Colombia and ... the U.S. comes in at No. 6.. Cosmetic surgery is not limited to women, either. In 2010, 592 penis enlargements were performed in Greece, compared with 239 in the United States, and just 17 in Canada. Penis enlargement surgery includes cutting the ligament connecting the penis to the pubic bone, which allows the skin under the groin to move forward and creates the illusion of greater length. In addition, the patient wears weights on the penis for several months to stretch the tissue. Another method involves cutting the penis open and implanting skin taken from cadaver donors around the shaft.. Now for the ladies: Operations that produce a more shapely behind were done seven times more often in Brazil than in other countries by population, and vaginal rejuvenation procedures were performed five times as often. According to a recent article in . , elective surgeries that promise to tighten the vagina or reshape the labia to a more cosmetically pleasing shape can cost as much as $10,000.. So what's driving the trend in front-runner South Korea? Liposuction and rhinoplasty (nose jobs) were the two most common cosmetic procedures. But .  — surgery that reshapes the eyelid — was also popular, with about 44,000 operations performed. In Asians, blepharoplasty is most often performed to create a fold or crease in the top eyelid, which is thought to produce a more Western appearance. According to a December 2010 article in . , the American Medical Association's online ethics journal, so-called double-eyelid surgery is the most popular cosmetic surgery in Asia overall and the third most requested procedure by Asian-Americans. But the surgery is also controversial; it's believed by many to be the result of a Western beauty standard that discounts and devalues ethnic differences.. Back at home, more than 400,000 liposuction procedures and more than 330,000 breast enhancements were performed in the United States in 2010. .  injections were the most common nonsurgical procedures, with about 580,000 performed.. Malcolm Roth, MD, president of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, believes that these numbers will climb in coming years, especially if the economy continues to improve.. "Because people are beginning to talk openly about [plastic surgery], we've seen over the last couple decades the demand for plastic surgery grow," Dr. Roth told . . "People are realizing that it's more common than most people think and there doesn't have to be a stigma around it."