It's known that being overweight can lead to various health problems, including heart disease and . . Now evidence is building that being overweight early in life might also increase the chance of developing .  later in life.. With MS, the body’s immune system attacks the central nervous system, leading to the deterioration of the myelin sheath — the fatty substance that protects nerve fibers — and sometimes even the nerve fibers themselves. This destruction creates scar tissue that can interrupt communication between the brain and the rest of the body, . , weakness, numbness, tingling, and issues with vision and balance.. Although the underlying cause of MS remains unknown, .  suggests that obesity is an important factor in the development of MS in people with a genetic susceptibility to the disease. The link may be inflammation: Obesity is associated with chronic, low-grade inflammation, and it may be that obesity-related inflammation triggers the autoimmune attack that occurs in MS.. Researchers in Argentina compared 210 people with MS with 210 otherwise similar people who didn't have MS and found that obesity — defined as a body mass index (BMI) of 30 or more — at age 20 was associated with a much higher risk of developing MS than a BMI of less than 30. . .. According to . , clinical professor of neurology and neurological sciences at Stanford Health Care in Stanford, California, the results of the Argentinian study suggest an odds ratio of two to one, meaning that 20-year-olds with a BMI of 30 or greater are twice as likely to develop MS as those with lower BMIs.. Overweight children as young as 7 also face a higher risk for developing MS later in life, says . , a neurology professor with a clinical specialty in MS at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.. In a study including 501 girls ages 7 through 13, each 1-unit increase in BMI was associated with a greater risk for MS. In the 273 boys in the study, a similar but somewhat lower risk was found.. The research, . , was led by . , doctor of science, project director of the Neuroepidemiology Research Group at the Harvard University T.H. Chan School of Public Health in Boston.. While .  is associated with as much as a twofold increase in MS risk, Dr. Munger adds that other environmental factors also impact a person's risk, such as smoking and . .. In addition to inflammation linking obesity to increased MS risk, blood levels of vitamin D may also play a vital role, says Dr. Dunn, adding that vitamin D and MS are inversely proportional: As your BMI increases, your vitamin D blood levels decrease while your risk for developing MS increases.. One theory for why obese people have low blood levels of vitamin D is that vitamin D, being a fat-soluble vitamin, gets absorbed into and stored in fat cells, making it unavailable to circulate in the bloodstream.. But obesity is not the only cause of low vitamin D..  examined whether people with genetically low vitamin D levels had an increased risk of MS, and found that they did.. Another study, in which Munger was an investigator and that was . , showed that higher vitamin D levels in people with .  (meaning they had a single episode of damage to the myelin sheath) predicted reduced MS activity and slower progression. On the other hand, lower levels of vitamin D in people with CIS were a strong risk factor for long-term MS activity and progression. Study subjects’ BMI did not affect the results in this study.. Obesity may not just increase the risk of developing MS, but there may also be a connection between the course and progression of MS and obesity, Dr. Berger says.. Obese people with MS had a greater risk for relapses, progression of their disease, and new brain lesions seen on an MRI scan than people with MS who were not obese, . .. It’s not known whether losing weight can reduce these risks in people with obesity and MS. But, stresses Dunn, it’s important to maintain a healthy weight and lifestyle for every aspect of your life.