Behold the world's first scientifically designed healthiest meal.. It would begin with a fresh and smoked salmon terrine, packed with omega-3 and docosahexaenoic acids, known for their heart, brain, and artery-healthy qualities. The fish dish is to be accompanied by a mixed leaf salad with an .  dressing, helpful for maintaining healthy blood cholesterol levels.. The second course: a chicken casserole with lentils and mixed vegetables, a main dish that could make about 80 health claims, among them that it contains protein to grow muscle mass and lentils to reduce tiredness and improve mental performance.. No meal would be complete without dessert. In this case, the researchers recommend a blancmange, or pudding, made with yogurt with active cultures, topped with walnuts and a sugarless caramel-flavored sauce. Walnuts are known to improve elasticity of . , guar gum in the pudding would help to maintain normal blood cholesterol, and the yogurt is good for digestion.. The menu was created by scientists at the independent British organization Leatherhead Food Research, according to the . . The researchers weighed more than 4,000 health claims used by food-sellers to entice shoppers, and found that about 222 were based in scientific fact. They then used those claims to create a meal that would pack maximum health benefits.. "We have also shown that healthy foods do not have to be dull," Paul Berryman, Leatherhead's chief executive told the Daily Mail.. The scientists also recommended a few snacks and treats that boast additional health benefits, the Daily Mail reports. One is a mixed berry shake that can serve as a meal replacement for dieters.  Another is a velvety hot chocolate drink containing . , a sleep aid for cold nights, the report says. The experts also suggest charcoal tables to reduce . , according to the Daily Mail.. The Letterhead meal is full of beneficial nutrients, says Everyday Health nutritionist Maureen Namkoong, RD, including lean proteins, omega-3 fatty acids, . and . , but other meals could potentially confer the same benefits. "We can get more creative than this," says Namkoong. "Several different meals can achieve these kinds of goals.". And, she adds, "Eating healthy isn't just about today. It's about trying to do the best you can for the long-term, and no one is going to eat this regimen everyday for the rest of their lives.". But Namkoong does believe that giving people an idea of a perfect meal could help them understand that eating well can be simpler than they think. "I think people have a hard time these days not eating convenience foods and cooking instead," she says. They might read about the ideal meal and "realize that a chicken casserole or salad is something they can do at home."