A week after researchers announced evidence that yoga is good for the mind, a new study has found it appears to work for the heart as well.. The latest study, by scientists at the University of Kansas Medical Center, looked at yoga's impact on 49 individuals suffering from atrial fibrillation, a common heart condition. The researchers monitored various indicators of heart health — including blood pressure, heart rate, and episodes of atrial fibrillation, a particular kind of irregular heart rhythm. They found that symptoms improved when study participants attended yoga class at least twice a week while continuing to take their prescribed medication.. Participants experienced an average of two episodes of irregular heart rhythm while taking yoga, compared to nearly four episodes pre-yoga. The study, published online Jan. 30 in the .  is one of the first to test the effects of yoga on atrial fibrillation. And it was published less than a week after a study found that those .  would benefit from yoga.. Once thought of as a mystical spiritual practice taught by swamis to devout practitioners sitting cross-legged on a mountain top, yoga has joined the mainstream as both a favorite of celebrities and cultural staple for health consumers. It is practiced by 15.8 million adults in the United States alone, according to data from the Harris Interactive Service.. Although many people seek out their first yoga class looking for a mild form of exercise to keep them in shape and relax them, many find an added bonus — that yoga can calm the mind as much as it can relieve stress in the body. And .  suggests it can also help with the symptoms of serious illnesses.. The analysis reviewed more than 100 studies of . , schizophrenia, ADHD,sleep complaints, eating disorders and cognition problems — and found yoga had positive effects on mild depression and sleep complaints even in the absence of drug treatments, and improved symptoms associated with schizophrenia and ADHD in patients on medication.. Dr. P. Murali Doraiswamy, a professor of psychiatry and medicine at Duke University Medical Center and author of the study, said yoga helps psychiatric conditions by reducing stress and affecting our emotions and mental status.. “The physical aspects of yoga do affect . , serotonin, and blood flow,” he says. “Yoga also enhances parasympathetic system, which is how it produces the relaxation response and combats stress. Plus yoga also likely affects dozens of other brain chemicals such as antioxidants and reduces inflammatory changes. Long term practice can change brain circuits — what we call neuroplasticity — and enhances cognitive reserve (i.e. our resilience to damage by effects of aging and stress).  Yoga also releases nerve growth factors that can boost strength of nerve connection and might even lead to production of new connections. We still don’t fully understand all the many effects and in some studies yoga has been found to affect the function of as many as 5000 different genes.“. Doraiswamy practices what his study finds beneficial, regularly engaging in pranayama and hatha,and less frequently Bikram.. Valerie Reiss, a contributor to .  and a certified yoga instructor, says that yoga has definitely helped her achieve more emotional balance.“Having a consistent practice keeps me from sinking to a deep, deep low,” says Reiss.  “If I roll out the yoga mat and do some deep breathing it really helps.”. She has turned to yoga for twenty years, through a major health crisis, a broken heart, and through daily trials with emotional stress.  In addition to yogic breathing, she favors the sun salutation position for helping her through mild depression. “The rhythm of the sun salutations took me out of my head and put me back in my body.”. Hillary Clinton is also a fan of yoga, and credits it with helping her handle her constant travel.  "Being on planes, as you know, as much as I am, takes something out of anybody, doesn't matter how old you are, or how often you've done it," she recently told Barbara Walters..  senior science writer William J. Broad has written about the downside of yoga. Commenting on the study, he said yoga's  benefits outweigh its risks.  “A century and a half of science suggests that yoga is a great antidote for depression and related disorders,” said Broad, author of . . “The risks of yoga tend to be few and rare while the benefits are many and commonplace.”. Doraiswamy said his review is preliminary, and based mostly on studies with small samples. He recommends more study, particularly of yoga's impact on clinical depression and anxiety disorders.