 — British scientists may have discovered that the activity of a certain brain molecule could hold the key to unlocking causes of obesity-related diseases like . , and lead to new treatments.. "Obesity is a major risk factor for .  with recent statistics showing that obese adults are three to four times more likely to develop high blood pressure," said lead study author Nina Balthasar, PhD, researcher in the University of Bristol School of Physiology and Pharmacology, in a press release. The study was published in the journal . .. But the challenge for researchers is that it isn't clear exactly how the brain processes signals that synchronize cardiovascular and metabolic functions that may influence weight gain, blood pressure, diabetes, and other conditions.. "In order to curb the escalating incidence of obesity and obesity-related diseases, a primary prevention goal must be to understand the physiological processes underlying our vulnerability to weight gain — knowledge that is central to the development of novel, effective therapies," explained Dr. Balthasar in the release.. Balthasar and her team found that a mutation in or loss of the molecule melanocortin-4-receptor (MC4R) may be the cause of a link between obesity and . . Past studies revealed that an increase in MC4R activity could lead to a decrease in food intake and insulin secretion, but it also raises blood pressure levels.. "Our data illustrate the complexity of the [central nervous system] pathways governing the body's metabolic balance and highlight the challenges ahead for the development of safe therapies," added Balthasar.. Her team pinpointed a way to regulate MC4R activity using the autonomic nervous system, in an effort to sustain proper blood pressure and insulin levels. And, examination of genetically modified mice revealed that MC4R is indeed responsible for elevated blood pressure as a result of obesity.. "This research increases our understanding of how the nervous system affects our . , and the development of high blood pressure due to obesity," said Shannon Amoils, MD, research advisor at the British Heart Foundation, in the press release. "With further knowledge of this complex area we hope scientists will be able to find safe and effective ways of treating obesity-related heart and circulatory disorders."