Having a loved one with .  (COPD) who can't or won't quit smoking can be very frustrating and frightening. Smoking is not only the main cause of COPD — quitting smoking is the most important part of . . COPD symptoms will continue to get worse and COPD exacerbations are unavoidable unless your loved one can . . What can you do to help?. "You can do a lot," says Eleana Conway, nurse practitioner, who directs the Freedom From Smoking Program at Lahey Clinic in Burlington, Mass. "Having .  greatly increases the chances of successfully quitting smoking. If your loved one has not quit yet, you need to avoid being negative or judgmental. Picking them up and not putting them down is the best way to get them ready to quit smoking.". Nagging, scolding, and preaching are the worst approaches. "Start by recognizing how difficult and frustrating it is to quit smoking," says Conway. Accept that the decision to quit smoking has to be their decision, not yours. The best way to help is to let your loved one know that you are there for support no matter what.. "Smoking is an addiction, and just like other addictions, quitting is rarely a first-time success. That's why we prefer to think of it as smoking treatment and not smoking cessation," says Conway.. Conway offers these five “R's" — talking points and advice for encouragement and motivation:. People smoke to celebrate, to relieve boredom, or to relieve stress. "Recognizing these smoking triggers and planning for them can help your loved one avoid a smoking relapse," says Conway.. Here are some ideas for helping your loved one quit smoking:. Part of a smoking treatment plan is behavior modification. That means avoiding situations that lead to smoking and learning other behaviors to deal with stress or boredom. "If you go out together to a place where people are smoking, plan ahead and have a signal for when the temptation is getting too high," says Conway.. You can be a big part of your loved one's behavior modification by participating in healthy activities together. Smoking treatment may also include medications and support groups. Encourage your loved one to ask for help and to take advantage of smoking treatment programs that are offered at most hospitals.. It's hard for your loved one to quit smoking, even though COPD symptoms and .  will get worse if he or she doesn’t quit. Ultimately you need to accept that only the one who smokes can make the decision to quit. Until your loved one decides to quit — as well as during the struggle to quit — the best you can do is stay positive and be supportive.