Middle-aged women are the most stressed-out people in the country, according to data from the most recent Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index.. Kelley Connors — a women's health advocate and host of the online radio show .  — calls it the "club sandwich:" Women are the middle piece of toast, squeezed between meaty obligations with children and parents.. "Midlife is a cultural term," Connors says. "It doesn't mean 55 or 45. It refers to a time when we women don't feel as young as we did before." In the Gallup-Healthways index, middle age is defined as ages 45 to 64. For many women, the gear shifts into midlife with . .. For women stretching their energy across children, parents, a job, and their partner, self-care takes a back seat more often than it should. But the timing is cause for alarm. While diet and exercise is important for women at any age, it is especially important post-menopause.. It might seem women should say "no" more often to focus on themselves. But should they start picking out pieces of the club sandwich? When women are so used to saying "yes," will saying "no" solve anything? I talked to Connors and Segar to find out.. Reaching menopause increases a . . The hike happens, in part, because women lose estrogen, and estrogen  affects cardiovascular health. But getting older has something to do with it, too. As they age, women are more likely to have other conditions such as diabetes, arthritis, or osteoporosis.. Self-care is crucial for women, says Michelle Segar, PhD, associate director of the Sport, Health, and Activity Research and Policy (SHARP) Center for Women and Girls, a new collaboration between the University of Michigan and Women's Sports Foundation in Ann Arbor. "If they don't foster their own energy, energy for everyone else isn't going to be there," she says.. Still, many women aren't getting the exercise they need to stay healthy. A nationwide study conducted at Oregon State University in Corvallis found women get only about 18 minutes of moderate to vigorous exercise per day, while men get 30 minutes daily, on average. This isn't merely a fitness problem. Lack of exercise puts women at greater risk for . , a term used to collectively describe a group of key risk factors for heart disease and stroke. They include extra weight around the waist, . , high triglycerides, high blood pressure, and high blood sugar.. In general, women do like to take on a lot of duties and tasks, Connors explains.. "It makes them feel like they're in charge and it adds to their self-worth. Why do we do all this? We want to be fulfilled. Saying 'yes' to everything will increase our affiliation and approval," she says. "That really contributes to our overall sense of self-worth.". Segar agrees women have a hard time saying "no." Some don't always have the luxury.. The idea of saying "no" — to your boss, or your kids — sounds nice in theory, but it's not that simple. The advice, a lofty goal, won't work for every woman. It might even alienate some. You can't tell your mom to wait when she needs help getting to the bathroom, or quit your job when you need the steady income, or ignore your children, your spouse, your friends. Trying to cut time from one or the other will leave you feeling more like a failure than a healthy woman.. Perhaps, then, saying "no" more often isn't the answer. A more positive spin could help, says Segar. It's better to approach than to avoid.. "The holy grail is for women to say 'yes' to themselves," she says. "If women are deeply committed to that 'yes,' the rest will fall into place.". It's not always easy to say "yes" to your own health. Segar suggests changing one thing for a week and seeing how it goes. Give up soda or processed foods, or take a 15-minute walk after dinner, or drink an extra few . . It takes less time than you think.. Physically fit and healthy middle-aged adults have lower healthcare costs as they age compared to their less physically fit counterparts, according to a study presented at the American Heart Association's Quality of Care and Outcomes Research 2012 Scientific Sessions.. If women take care of themselves in midlife, they'll reap the benefits now .  later. Steadily build healthy habits — little yeses — into your daily schedule. Every club sandwich needs toothpicks holding it together.