Consumer Reports, the watchdog group that offers reviews of cars and home appliances, is now offering ratings of cancer screenings such as . , CT scans for lung cancer, transvaginal ultrasounds for ovarian cancer, and . . Their consensus? .  and may create more confusion than clarity.. The group evaluated 11 screenings and found that eight, including those for prostate, bladder, lung, and ovarian cancers, should mostly be avoided. Tests for cervical, colon, and breast cancer are the most effective, according to the report, mainly based on evidence from the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, an independent group supported by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.. John Santa, MD, Director of the Consumer Reports Health Rating Center, spoke with Everyday Health to answer questions about the findings and offer advice to help consumers navigate the world of cancer screening.. When you're told that you're positive for cancer or could be positive for cancer, it's a frightening experience. You spend a couple days, a couple weeks, or even a couple months waiting to see if you actually have the disease. It causes an enormous amount of stress that is oftentimes unnecessary. Then, almost always you need another test, such as biopsies. Invasive procedures like these have risks, including infection. If you do have cancer, now you have to consider the pros and cons of treatment. Here's where we run into a huge cultural problem. Our society has the viewpoint that we should choose the most aggressive treatment. Now we know that's not always for the best. Some of these screening tests detect cancer so early that treatment does not need to be done. In some instances the cancer may go away on its own. In others, the body may even get rid of the cancer itself. These tests can be confusing and lead to unnecessary treatment that can cause more harm than good.. Yes, some of them are. We still don’t understand all the dynamics of many types of cancer and testing. The biggest thing to remember is that these tests detect cancer, but cancer isn't one disease. The test may not tell us if a person has a less worrisome form of cancer or a more worrisome form.. The first thing is to not use sources that are unreliable. Men should not be screened for prostate cancer at athletic events, and women should not be deciding whether or not to get screened for breast cancer at "mammograms parties." These are important medical decisions, and . , to go over the pros and cons. They should be prepared and do their homework by reading up on information on sites like . , . , and . .. While I'm sure these tests are probably done correctly, I don’t think those are the kinds of places that represent the pros and cons of cancer screening and treatment in a fair way. Almost always, these efforts have a promotional objective, and are usually sponsored by physicians or hospitals that will make money off follow-up testing. This can be beneficial for things like blood pressure screening, but when it comes to something as controversial as prostate cancer, folks should not be out there making money off of it.. Consumers need to accept the three things that we know can absolutely decrease cancer risk: Don't smoke, be physically active, and maintain normal weight. Those things are way more important than any screening tests.. The first thing is for the folks who are making money screening in promotional and advertising settings to quit doing that. It's not helping. Doctors and consumers also need to stop taking a cookbook approach to cancer prevention. It's a concept that came out in the 1960s and '70s, where the thinking went that cancer needs to be caught at the earliest stage, and the way to do that is for everyone having screening tests for every type of cancer all the time. We know now that this is not good approach. Everybody needs an individualized recipe that depends on age, risk factors, and a variety of other issues.