As I was standing in a line at a fast-casual restaurant one day, I noticed something: Nearly everyone in front of me had their heads down, staring intently at their smartphones. Even people who clearly came to the restaurant together were not interacting with each other. And no one seemed to mind.. Most will agree that the rapid rise of the internet, social networking, and digital technology over the past few years has permanently changed the way humans socialize and interact. Does, or will, this have any effect on our brain? It’s too early to say, but here’s what we do know.. You might think that communicating online is easier than communicating in person; after all, you just type what you want to say, hit “send” and anticipate a response. But, online communication is actually a more complex activity for the brain than face-to-face interaction.. As humans, we are genetically programmed to .  in person. Our brain and our senses have developed over millions of years to detect, process and interpret the fine details of in-person communication — expressions in the face, body posture, tone of voice, response to touch, etcetera. Take all that away, and the brain has to work much harder to make up for all the information it doesn’t have.. There’s no doubt that technology and social networking have altered the needs and behavior of millions of people. For one, we now expect instant gratification. Facebook posts, Twitter tweets and emails get responded to within minutes; text messages, even sooner; and instant messages, within seconds.. Thanks in large part to social networking sites, there’s a constant desire to seek out information, whether it’s what your friends are up to or if your favorite brand is promoting a sale. In relation to that, there also is the need to share things that happen to you. There also is the desire to know about — and, of course, sharing — new and interesting things as soon as it happens, or playing a part in helping something go “viral.”. What’s the brain connection to these types of expectations and behaviors? Some suggest they are driven in part by dopamine, which is a neurotransmitter that, among other things, causes us to seek things that are pleasurable. In social networking, the pleasure is in knowing, sharing and getting feedback. And with technology enabling all that information to be available to us anytime, anywhere, it’s not difficult to fall into the habit of wanting to seek more and share more information, since we are constantly rewarded with every new post or tweet.. Sound a little similar to symptoms of potentially addicting behavior? Perhaps. Although some research into .  has been published, there have been no major studies yet investigating social media addiction.. So, for now, the long-term impact of social networking on the brain remains to be seen. But one thing is for certain: We are living in a brave new world, and advances in technology are only going to create even more ways of connecting and communicating with each other — virtually, at least.. Mind your health,. Dr. Keith Black. For more information on . , visit the . .