When you're at your annual physical, fibbing to your doctor about a few of your health habits might not seem like such a big deal — and if you do lie, you're certainly not alone. One in four patients admits to lying to his or her doctor, according to a .  conducted by General Electric Co. with the Cleveland Clinic and Ochsner Health System. It's not surprising that plenty of people want to avoid a scolding about smoking, drinking, or eating too much processed food.. But before you fudge the truth, consider this: Lies to your doctors can keep them from doing their job well and, as a result, can have a .  and . . To help you make the right decision, here are the top 10 lies that doctors hear — and the negative health impact that each one carries.. One in 10 smokers admitted to .  in a 2013 study published in Health Education and Behavior. Lying about smoking not only prevents your doctor from recommending a .  program that is best for you, it also interferes with your treatment. When a smoker has bronchitis, for instance, doctors tend to manage the disease more aggressively because smoking breaks down protective mechanisms that help non-smokers fight off infections, says Michael Guttenberg, MD, chairman of emergency medicine at the North-Shore-LIJ Health System's Forest Hills Hospital in New York City. Smoking also raises the risk for heart disease, stroke, lung disease, and other health problems that your doctor absolutely needs to know.. Most doctors have no qualms with a drink a day for women and two for men, but many people still lie to their physicians about .  altogether. This is bad news when it comes to your overall longevity. "Too much alcohol causes weight gain and will cause abnormal liver tests," says . , medical director at the Joan H. Tisch Center for Women's Health at NYU Langone Medical Center in New York City. "The doctor always finds out the truth sooner or later, so why waste time lying about it?". Lying to your doctor about exercise can hurt you the most. "Just saying you exercise doesn't improve your health," Dr. Goldberg says. "You need to actually do the exercise. It's not hurting the doctor's feelings if you don't take her advice, but it can hurt your health." .  and boosting your longevity. If you're avoiding being active because a certain condition keeps you from traditional forms of exercise, this is the perfect time for your doctor to help recommend alternatives that you may have never considered and are doable.. Whether you're .  or taking illicit drugs, you need to tell your doctor. Drugs can pose tremendous risks to your body, including elevated blood pressure, stroke, and heart attack. It's understandable that it's a hard truth to tell, but Dr. Guttenberg assures patients that "We're not the police." It's crucial for your doctor to see the full picture in order to give you the right treatment and avoid dangerous drug interactions. And remember, Guttenberg says, "We've probably heard it all before.". The common flip side of lying about medication is not being honest about taking the pills your doctor did actually prescribe. If you stopped your meds for any reason, it's important to say so. "Tell your doctor if you have concerns about the medication you take," Goldberg says. "He needs to know about any .  or if you stopped taking it because it is too expensive — he may be able to prescribe a generic. Good doctor-patient relationships are partnerships. If there is something holding you back from doing what's best for your health, you'll have the help you need to get through it.". When you don't eat right, you only harm yourself. But when you lie about it, you make it harder for your doctor to determine what's actually wrong with you. If you have a condition such as type 2 diabetes where certain . , you are unnecessarily putting yourself at risk for serious health complications. Besides, most doctors aren't fooled by this fib in the first place: "The scale in my office — it always tells the truth," Goldberg says.. Your sexuality and the number of partners you've had might be a topic you'd rather not discuss with someone in a white coat, but there can be serious long-term consequences – for you and your sexual partners – if .  aren't addressed. "They're absolutely treatable if they're identified and the information is available to us," Guttenberg says. What's more, if you have a lower libido than usual or trouble maintaining an erection, your doctor is actually the best person to tell. After all, having sex can be an excellent way to boost your physical and mental health. Your physician can help you determine the potential causes of a .  or .  and prescribe medication or other solutions.. Patients sometimes exaggerate or downplay symptoms. "They might consider it a little white lie," says . , a primary care doctor at Mercy Medical Center in Baltimore, but not being truthful about your symptoms can result in needless testing or prevent your doctor from getting to a solution quickly and directly. "It doesn't do anyone any good not to inform the doctor about what's really going on," he says.. This might not be less of a lie and more of something you truly haven't thought about, but the duration of your symptoms is an important factor in your treatment. Something that's been going on for a long time probably isn't as significant as an .  and needs to be handled much quickly, Dr. Leavey says. He tells his patients to think about recent events, such as birthdays and holidays, and ask themselves if they were experiencing the symptoms then.. Lying or forgetting to disclose your .  of a disease is another way to sabotage your health and longevity down the road. "Often, history is destined to repeat itself," Guttenberg says. Although you can't change your family history, your doctors can use that information to keep an eye out for specific symptoms and catch a problem when it's more manageable.. The key to any relationship, including one with your physician, is honesty, Leavey says. To hide something from your physician will ultimately cause problems, but opening up and telling the whole truth will allow your doctor to give you exactly the help that you need.