 — It’s been one year since Amy Chua’s no-play date, practice-until-it’s-perfect parenting method introduced in .  caused an uproar in the blogosphere.. And while Chua says her strict style leads to successful, .  children, new research is suggesting otherwise.. High-achieving Chinese students are more .  and anxious than their white classmates, a study from Michigan State University researchers says.. “Amy said Western children are not happier than Chinese ones,” lead researcher Desiree Qin, PhD, assistant professor in the Department of Human Development and Family Studies at Michigan State University, told the . . “But at the same time, research from our study does show that when parents place a lot of pressure on their kids, the children are less happy.”. Qin, who was raised in China by her grandparents, interviewed 500 students at a prestigious East Coast high school, which, according to the .  is New York City’s Stuyvesant High School. She found that the Chinese American students were more depressed, had lower self-esteem, and more anxiety than white students.. “I strongly believe that happiness matters tremendously for children to develop well, so they don’t just have success now and then later on experience maladjustment,” Qin said in a press release for the study to be published in the journal . . “It’s really important for .  to pay attention to this.”. One key may be to encourage social activities like sleepovers, which Chua infamously banned in . . “Children need the ability to work well with other people, to relate,” Qin said. “I feel strongly that I won’t raise my kids just toward success at the cost of other things. More than anything, I want them to be well-rounded, emotionally healthy kids.”. And the best way to do that, according to Qin, is to have a healthy balance of Eastern and Western parenting practices. She says, “What is most beneficial to children, regardless of the culture, is clear and high expectations in a warm and loving family environment.”