Agapi Stassinopoulos and her sister, Ariana Huffington, were raised by an extraordinary woman who encouraged them to live with open hearts, have faith in their talents, and ask for what they want in life.. Their beloved . , Elli Stassinopoulos, passed away 12 years ago, but it is apparent her soulful wisdom translated into a healthy approach to life for both of her accomplished daughters. Each in her own way has inspired others and had great impact: Agapi as a bestselling author and inspirational speaker who spent 10 years sharing the wisdom of the Greek goddesses in her books and performances, and Arianna as a high-powered and respected media star who founded The Huffington Post and now guides AOL.. Agapi’s new book, .  (Hay House), offers a revealing look into their childhood and how it was shaped by a courageous mother who encouraged her girls to truly celebrate life with joy - despite any challenges that might come their way. Agapi weaves a fascinating portrait of the seeds of empowerment planted by their mom, despite her own pain and heartache.. Agapi and Arianna’s parents met shortly after the end of World War II - when her mother was recovering from her work with the Red Cross and her dad, Constantine Stassinopoulos, had just been released from a concentration camp, where he had been imprisoned for publishing an underground newspaper in support of the resistance. They fell deeply in love but their .  was stormy. Her father left when Agapi was 14 and Arianna was 16, leaving a wound that would take a long time to heal. In the end, he asked for forgiveness, but his departure left the family with few financial resources. Somehow, her mother always made things work.. When Agapi was 10, for example, she, Arianna (then 12), and their mother were on the way to a George Bernard Shaw play in Athens when her mom realized she’d left behind her purse, which contained money, the tickets, and the keys to the house. Rather than panic, she said, “We’ll find a solution.”. Elli went to the super’s apartment to borrow money for cab fare and dinner. After the meal, they headed to the theater and she charmed the manager into letting them have their seats even without the tickets. And when they got home, she crossed the street to the local fire station and asked the chief to send a ladder and a firefighter up to their third floor window and then open the door from inside to let them in. The chief went into the apartment himself!. “She was so amazing, that’s why I wanted to share her wisdom,” Agapi told .  in a recent interview. “She showed a tremendous trust in the universe, and in life, that things will work out.”. Agapi, who has a Master’s degree in Spiritual Psychology from the University of Santa Monica and is a graduate of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London, also draws on her Greek culture to encourage readers to embrace healthy approaches to life. In her Huffington Post blog and in her book, her favorite tips include:. Here are highlights from our talk with her:. : Things happen throughout the day that we do not voice - not that we have to pay homage or build a temple to our feelings, but we have to honor our emotions and give them their right place and time. Many times we get tired or afraid, or we feel like we don’t want to go to work and face people or are overwhelmed by negative emotions. Maybe we need more attention, more love, more companionship, or we want someone to listen to us. Whatever it is, we often deny it and just say “I’m fine.” We get on with our day, but we don’t voice what is really true inside. We put it under the bed and close the door - or we lock it in the closet. That is one way we bind our hearts. Also, so many people feel alone because they are not really .  themselves. It is a binding when you check out on yourself, withdraw, or judge yourself..  Yes, that’s life in Greece. There is an exuberance that helps with emotional health. Nobody ever just . . Nobody is ever fine. There is communication. People interact. When you run into someone on the street or in a store, and you ask “How are you?” you hear, “I’m upset, I’m tired, I’m fed up, I’m frustrated.” The idea is to put words on how you’re feeling. And then if you name it, you take authority over it..  One day, I knocked on a door and there was nothing. There was suffocation inside. Finally, little by little, I started to open what I called “the river” or “faucet” within. I realized I had things to say, and I could say them; that I was permitted to say them. I realized that all of my life was a blessing because the journey led me to . . I discovered we’re not what we appear to be. There is a gap between what happens inside ourselves, our inner life, and what we present outside. I think everybody has this - this being we are inside, that’s very vulnerable and very human. Unbinding is joining the flow of life and embracing how you really feel and who you really are..  Yes. For example, when I was in England, in drama school, I tried to be more English to fit in to the school. The principal actually said to me, “We got you into the drama school because we liked . . We don’t want you to conform and be like us. We want you to give us what you have - this juiciness, this exuberance.” I think all my life I tried to fit in. I tried to fit in the acting world, in Hollywood, and because I was not getting hired I started to feel “less than.” When we don’t fit in we start to adjust ourselves. My mother used to say, “Find yourself and let others fit in to you.” It’s about your truth..  I would call it your inheritance. It’s your birthright! We are all part of the cosmos; part of the breath of life. Therefore, I know in my heart of hearts that we have that energy, that love, that spirit inside of us. It causes us to forgive ourselves for anything we may be holding against ourselves. This is the path of healing, of self-esteem, of feeling good about yourself, of taking yourself into account, of honoring yourself and having a lot of compassion for yourself. If people had more compassion for themselves and each other, this world would be so wonderful..  My mom raised us with a sense of learning to have a good time and to celebrate. In the midst of her struggles - financial and with my Dad, who betrayed her and broke her heart in many ways - she had faith to bring the joy back in our lives and bring a sense of celebration. For her, having a good time was very important. She would say to me, “Darling, if you’re not enjoying yourself, don’t go. If this person is bringing your energy down, get out of there. If it is a toxic person, you might as well be by yourself and enjoy your own company.” I would say to her, “Mommy, you’re by yourself, are you not lonely?” And she would say, “I’m by myself but I am not alone because I am .  myself.” She had this amazing perspective..  She felt that she was really in control and could make herself happy. So if you are feeling disappointed or depressed, she would say, “Change the channel.” She had her own .  and frustrations, but as life went on, she followed the wisdom of (Jiddu) Krishnamurti and other teachers. She had a philosophy of loving nature. She would walk barefooted on the earth when it rained and look up and say, “Blessings, blessings, blessings!” If she felt depressed, she would go the supermarket and buy things for other people. She would do things that would reach out and touch people. That was her way of connecting. For her, part of the emotional health is when we connect..  It ultimately comes to two channels. Are you connected or are you disconnected? I find that when I am disconnected, I’ll tell my sister or my .  “I’m really off.” So ask: How do you reconnect? Perhaps you can reconnect through your breath, through resting, by making yourself something great to eat, or through creativity. When I get really low and feeling out of sorts, I start to write or I start to help someone else and suddenly everything connects..  We are very close - and very different. We have each other’s hearts. We’ve have a tremendous love and protection for each other, and it’s one of the greatest blessings in my life and in her life. Arianna had grounding in the world. She was very assertive and very “fast forward.” I was more of the artistic type, the dreamer, and had a tremendous sensitivity. I’m still sensitive but I’ve become much stronger. She mentored me in finding my strengths the world. She would say things like, “Don’t do this because people want you to do it - do what you want to do. Do the things that are true for you.” So she helped me be true to myself and strengthened me. I brought a lot of nurturing to her life - a lot of playfulness and fun because I have a very . . She is much more of the “Athena.” She’s able to let go of things very fast while I process more. Part of her gift is also validating other people - that’s what Arianna does a lot..  Exactly. She never compared us. I was great at ballet, and she never said to Arianna, “Dance like your sister dances. She’s so good and charismatic.” She said, “Darling, dance is not for you…you’re not going to do dancing.” She set us up to love and support each other..  Looking at others as role models is great. You can look at Madonna and say, “Isn’t this inspirational, that in her fifties she’s kept herself in top shape.” Maybe we can’t dance at the Super Bowl, but perhaps we can go exercise. If we look at others as inspiration, it’s wonderful. My mother used to say, “I love myself enough!” Think about what gives you pleasure and get into the habit of doing things that uplift you. Put yourself on your to-do list..  Yes! Make yourself No. 1. We think it’s selfish or that we’re not worthy. Being healthy every day is really a very practical thing and boils down to: How you eat, how you sleep, how you feed your body, what your thoughts are, what you tell yourself, your relationship to spirit, and the friends that nurture you. Ultimately, what nurtures us is being loving because love is the well inside of us. We bind it by thinking that it is outside, but it isn’t. Our hearts are naturally loving. From my perspective, what makes people extraordinary is their ability to love. If we have lived a life of love, acceptance, giving, kindness and tenderness, that’s what we take with us. I watched my parents take their last breaths and in that moment there is nothing else but love..  Unbinding the Heart 