 You love your partner (no doubt about it). You want your relationship to continue (naturally). And you certainly have no plans to step outside of your .  (good heavens no!). But in terms of your commitment to your spouse, are you giving it all you’ve got?. A couple of psychologists from UCLA were interested in what dedication to a relationship .  means, so they followed 172 first-time newlyweds during their first 11 years of marriage. They discovered two very different kinds of “commitment” — and one of them just didn’t cut it, they reported in the . .. "It's easy to be committed to your .  when it's going well," senior study author and psychology professor Thomas Bradbury, PhD, told . . The “real” kind of commitment, however, involves taking the extra steps to keep the relationship moving forward when things get rocky. "This is the other kind of commitment,” he explains. “The difference between 'I like this relationship and I'm committed to it' and 'I'm committed to doing what it takes to make this relationship work.'”. In order to measure their level of commitment, the researchers asked the participants to what extent they agreed or disagreed with a number of statements. These included:. Throughout the marriage, the researchers performed follow-up interviews with the couples. After the full 11 years, 78.5 percent of the twosomes were still hitched — but 21.5 percent of them had gotten . .. And the couples who stuck with it tended to have one particular thing in common: Both members of the relationship were willing to make sacrifices to make the relationship work.. After studying what makes or breaks a marriage for 11 years, the researchers drew a number of conclusions (which also serve as pretty good relationship tips!):. "Find ways to compromise, or at least have the conversation that allows you and your partner to see things eye to eye," Bradbury suggests. "Often, we don't have the big conversations that we need in our relationship. The very act of communicating in difficult times can be as important as the outcome of the conversation.. “Everybody has the opportunity to engage in a conflict, or not, to say, 'You're wrong, I'm right,'” he adds. “When people are in it for the long term, they are often willing to make sacrifices and view themselves as a team. They both are.”