 The fashion industry has long been lambasted for employing too thin or too young models who appear unhealthy and also promote unrealistic standards of beauty. Now for the first time, lawmakers have done something about it.. Late Monday night, Israeli lawmakers passed legislation — the first of its kind — banning underweight models from use in ads and fashion shows.. The law defines underweight as a woman with a .  of less than 18.5, which is the standard the World Health Organization uses to determine malnutrition. The use of models who “appear underweight” is also banned, and the law stipulates that advertisers must explicitly state if graphic manipulation was done to make a model look thinner in a photo.. According to the Associated Press, the law’s supporters hope these efforts will help limit the spread of . .. "We want to break the illusion that the model we see is real," Liad Gil-Har, assistant to law sponsor Dr. Rachel Adato, told the AP.. In Israel, about two percent of all girls between 14 and 18 have severe eating disorders, a rate similar to other developed countries, eating disorder expert Sigal Gooldin said in the same AP report. One of Israel’s top model agents, Adi Barkan, championed the law, saying that in his 30 years in the industry, he has seen female models become thinner and sicker while struggling to fit in with industry standards.. The new standards will require a 5’10” model, for example, to weight at least 129 pounds. According to the . , this would disqualify famous faces such as Kate Moss from appearing in Israeli ads. (The paper estimates British supermodel Moss has a BMI of around 17, though the source of her .  is not given.). In the United States, the Council of Fashion Designers of America is trying to tackle the underweight model issue through the CFDA Health Initiative, the . . Since 2007, the CFDA has partnered with the fashion industry and medical experts to propose guidelines that promote healthier working environments for all models. The guidelines seek to educate people working in the industry on the early warning signs of eating disorders, encourage models with eating disorders to seek professional help, and promote better working conditions that include healthy meals, snacks, and water for models on the job.