 The idea that .  can be struck dumb in the presence of a woman — turned into tongue-tied bumbling, stumbling, sweating wrecks — is a staple of .  commercials and countless . . But while it may just seem that most men simply aren’t blessed with James Bond suavity, it turns out guys have a much better excuse for their ineptitude around the opposite sex: Dutch researchers have found that even anticipating interacting with a woman causes a decline in men’s mental function. That’s right, guys, you don’t even have to actually communicate with a woman to become disoriented — just .  to is enough to suffer a bout of doltishness.. The research was conducted by psychologists at Radboud University Nijmegen, and published in the . . Some of the Dutch team had participated in a study published in 2009, which found that when .  they experience a temporary impairment of cognitive functioning. With this previous research in mind, the current group of psychologists wanted to see how men would perform cognitively if they didn’t even meet a flesh and blood female, and instead just thought they were, or would be, interacting with one.. Researchers recruited heterosexual male and female college students to take part in the study, which consisted of two sections. The first tested results of what the researchers call a “pseudo-interaction” between the sexes.. All the participants were given a Stroop test to establish a baseline of their cognitive function. The Stroop test consists of showing an individual a list of words denoting a color, where the word isn’t printed in the color that it’s describing (e.g., the word 'blue' is printed in red ink). As quickly as he/she can, the individual must name the color the word is printed in, ignoring the meaning of the word itself.. After this initial test, students were asked to read out loud a list of Dutch words in front of a computer with a webcam. The men and women were told they were taking part in a study on lip reading and were being observed through the webcam by an experimenter. They could not see the observer and could not interact with the observer in any way. The only thing they knew was his or her first name, which appeared in a chat window — either Bas or Lisa (two typical male and female Dutch names). Following the lip reading exercise, the students took another Stroop test.. As the psychologists expected, men who thought they’d been observed by “Lisa” performed significantly worse on the second Stroop test than those who’d been observed by “Bas.” Women’s results on the two tests were nearly the same, regardless of the sex of the faux observer. Summing up these findings in the study the researchers write that “men’s cognitive performance declined after an ‘interaction’ with a woman, even though there was no actual face-to-face contact with the woman, and participants did not have clear information about the woman’s looks.”. The second part of the study closely mirrored the first, except that students didn’t actually complete the lip reading portion. Instead, they were led to believe they’d be observed by a hidden observer — this time named either Daan or Danielle — but in fact the lip reading observation was omitted. The students then took a second Stroop test.. Results for this second portion of the study matched those for the first: Men who expected to be observed by a female performed worse on the second Stroop test compared to those who anticipated a male observer. Women, yet again, showed little variation in their Stroop test scores based on the sex of the expected observer.. While this study is obviously small and more research is needed, the authors do venture a possible cause for the the impairment they observed. “Men seem so strongly attuned to mating opportunities that they were influenced by rather .  to a woman, even in the absence of clear information about her,” they write.. Unfortunately for men, this “strongly attuned” mating impulse could be hurting them in ways beyond romance. The researchers pointedly remark that “the present research suggests that the cognitive impairment effect for males can occur in more situations than previously assumed.” Specifically, the Dutch psychologists raise the concern that “men’s cognitive performance might be affected if they are talking to a woman on the phone (or already before that, while they were waiting for her phone call), if they are chatting with a woman online or if they are sitting in the waiting room of their new, female, doctor.”