 When a baby cries in the middle of the night, it might be better to let her comfort herself to get back to sleep, finds a new study published in . Temple University psychology professor Marsha Weinraub, PhD, and her colleagues measured patterns of nighttime awakenings in more than 1,200 infants, ages 6 to 36 months.. They asked parents to report on how often their children awoke during the night at 6, 15, 24, and 36 months. They found that by 6 months of age, 66 percent of babies did not wake up during the night, or awoke just once per week on average. Thirty-three percent of the babies woke up seven nights per week at 6 months; the number dropped to two nights per week by 15 months and one night per week at 24 months.. The Temple researchers found that when mothers were tuned in to night-time awakenings, and if babies regularly fell asleep during breastfeeding, they may not be learning how to self-soothe, which is critical for developing regular sleep patterns.. The researchers also looked at the connection between depression in mothers and infant awakenings. According to Dr. Weinraub, mothers who are depressed when their babies are 6 and 36 months old may have been depressed during pregnancy, and prenatal depression could have affected their neural development, which in turn could make it more likely that a baby will wake up during the night. But it's also possible that sleep deprivation in mothers of young infants exacerbates depression, . “Because the mothers in our study described infants with many awakenings per week as creating problems for themselves and other family members, parents might be encouraged to establish more nuanced and carefully targeted routines to help babies with self-soothing and to seek occasional respite," Weinraub said in the release.. Her advice? “Put infants to bed at a regular time every night, allow them to fall asleep on their own and resist the urge to respond right away to awakenings.". Other study findings: Babies, like adults, have sleep cycles every one-and-a-half to two hours in which they wake up and return to sleep. Some babies cry out when they awaken, and some do not. Also, the study found of all the babies who woke up regularly and cried out during the night, the majority were boys.. They recommend that parents who see persistent sleep problems in their babies past 18 months seek advice from their doctors.. Confused about what your child’s daytime cries mean? .  with this guide.. Also, find out the . .