If conventional cancer treatment methods are not effectively treating your esophageal cancer, or if you want to try alternative therapies to alleviate your esophageal cancer symptoms, talk to your doctor about CAM, or complementary and alternative medicine. Such therapies can be used to supplement or replace conventional esophageal cancer treatment methods.. In addition to conventional esophageal cancer treatments like . , . , and . , there are several types of therapy that can help treat or manage symptoms and side effects of esophageal cancer and cancer treatment. Few of these treatments have been as rigorously tested as traditional therapies, but they appear safe when provided by trained practioners. Whether these alternative therapies are beneficial for a number of different cancers is a question being investigated in a wide range of studies funded by the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine. These CAM therapies include:. There is much research being done to find . . In addition to conventional methods, The National Cancer Institute and the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine are working together to research new methods of treating different kinds of cancer with CAM therapies, and new ways to use existing CAM methods. Current clinical trials are studying the effects of acupuncture and massage, adding mistletoe extract to traditional therapy for the treatment of some tumors, and adding shark cartilage to traditional therapy for certain types of lung cancers.. They are also studying the use of hyperbaric oxygen therapy on some cancer patients who have had their larynx removed. Many of these studies use CAM methods in addition to conventional treatments; others are comparing the effectiveness of the treatments against each other.. For most people, complementary esophageal cancer treatments such as massage, meditation, and exercise offer little risk and significant benefits — they can help relieve symptoms and offer a better quality of life. New treatments are still being researched, and may be available to you now through clinical trials. Of course, before trying any type of treatment, either in addition to or instead of conventional cancer treatment, always talk to your doctor about what is safe and recommended.. If your doctor says it's safe, take the alternative route and get a massage if you suffer from fatigue and pain. Sign up for a yoga class to help you sleep and to relieve body pain. The better you feel and the more energy you have, the better equipped you'll be to beat esophageal cancer.. Learn more in the Everyday Health . .