 If you notice that you're sneezing and wheezing is bad no matter what the pollen count is, the problem could be .  and sunlight.. A study published in the .  found that people living closest to the equator are at increased risk of developing allergies and asthma, possibly due to the effect of UV-B rays on the body's production of vitamin D.. Researchers from the American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology analyzed data from a large population-based study of respiratory disease that included 5,729 participants; a subgroup of 1,397 visited clinics to undergo detailed allergy tests.. The participants, who were children when the study began, were followed from 1968 to 2004.. Parents were asked to complete a questionnaire about their child’s respiratory symptoms, and the children had a clinical examination and lung function test. Follow-up surveys were completed in 1974, 1981, 1992, and 2004. A smaller group responded to detailed questionnaires and had comprehensive skin-prick tests for allergies.. Participants’ addresses were coded for latitude and linked with UV-B data from satellite observations of atmospheric ozone, according to the study.. The researchers found that those who lived closest to the equator and experienced high UV-B exposure had an increased likelihood of having hay fever, food allergies, skin sensitivity to household allergens like dust mites and molds, and asthma.. "UV-B rays exposure is higher for people living in areas closer to the equator," explained Vicka Oktaria, MPH, lead study author, in a press release. "This increase in UV-B may be linked to . , which is thought to modify the immune system. These modifications can lead to an . .". While past studies have shown that different latitudes are associated with different allergens due to climate, housing, and social and cultural variations, this study was the first to look at individuals’ latitude and UV-B exposure to see the effects on allergies and asthma, according to the press release.