Added sugars are as much a threat to public health as alcohol and tobacco, and should be regulated in a similar fashion, some researchers suggest.. That includes levying taxes on sugary foods and even enforcing age limits for buying . , Robert Lustig, MD, of the University of California San Francisco, and colleagues wrote in a comment in . .. "For both alcohol and tobacco, there is robust evidence that gentle 'supply side' control strategies which stop short of all-out prohibition — taxation, distribution controls, age limits — lower both the consumption of the product and the accompanying health harms," they wrote.. Lustig and colleagues called .  "toxic," particularly in excessive amounts, noting that it poses dangers similar to those of alcohol. Fructose, specifically, can harm the liver, they wrote, and overconsumption has been linked with all the diseases involved with metabolic syndrome: hypertension, high triglycerides, insulin resistance, and diabetes.. It also has potential for abuse, they wrote, as it interferes with the signaling of hunger hormones leptin and ghrelin and tinkers with dopamine pathways. And it exacts a great cost, they said, with the U.S. spending $65 billion in lost productivity and $150 billion on healthcare every year for problems related to metabolic syndrome.. Thus, sugary foods should be regulated just like alcohol and tobacco. For instance, sugary products could be taxed, they said, noting their support for a penny-per-ounce soda tax currently being considered by U.S. lawmakers.. Governments also could impose an age limit — perhaps age 17, they suggested — on the purchase of drinks with . .. Or lawmakers could tighten licensing requirements on vending machines and snack bars that sell sugary products in schools and workplaces, and states could enforce zoning ordinances for fast food outlets and convenience stores in low-income areas, they wrote.. Some researchers caution, however, that regulating nutrients is a slippery slope.. "If we regulate sugar, what about trans fat? What about sodium? What about calories?" David Katz, MD, director of Yale's Prevention Research Center, said in an email to . . "There is also the fact that sugar is present in fruit, in fruit juice, and processed foods sweetened with concentrated fruit juices. Where, exactly, does the regulation start, and end?". Rather, Katz said, the focus of regulation should be on the overall nutritional quality of . , not just one nutrient.. Mary Story, PhD, of the University of Minnesota, said that while sugar intake should be regulated in patients' . , she doesn't "think the evidence is strong enough that it should be legally regulated in foods.". "I would not favor this approach but I do believe the food industry needs to reduce salt, calories, saturated/trans fat and added sugars in foods and beverages to make products healthier," Story said in an email to . .. Lustig and colleagues acknowledged that regulating added sugars would pose more of a challenge than regulating alcohol or tobacco, and agreed that change ultimately needs to come from producers and distributors lowering the amount of sugar added to foods.. The FDA should "set the table" for that change, they argued, first by removing fructose from the Generally Regarded as Safe (GRAS) list, which allows manufacturers to add unlimited amounts to any food.. "If international bodies are truly concerned about public health," they wrote, "they must consider limiting fructose, and its main delivery vehicles, the added sugars of high-fructose corn syrup and sucrose, which pose dangers to individuals and to society as a whole.". Lustig has long been a proponent of labeling sugar "toxic," chronicled most recently in a New York Times Magazine piece last April that garnered much attention for the researcher's condemnation of the sweetener.