I have seen estimates that as many as 70 percent of American adults have no exercise routine.  For the most part, Americans do not walk miles a day like our European counterparts.  To stay healthy we need some type of .  to assure our body's health.  You do not want to wait until you lose your health to realize its importance. Why do so many Americans lack a regular exercise routine?  I believe the problem is a result of common errors in the development of an exercise routine.  These errors result in excessive fatigue, injury and an avoidance of one of the easiest things you can do to improve your quality of life.  The following tips might keep you on the path to making an exercise routine that is fun and will add to your energy and health:. 1.     Start out with a routine that is appropriate for your current level of fitness.. 2.     Start with a written plan that outlines your first few weeks of your routine.. 3.     Make sure you have the right equipment to be safe and avoid injury.. 4.     Be patient, increase intensity and duration in small doses.. 5.     Listen to your body; do not let small aches become serious injuries.. 6.     Give your body the fuel and rest it needs to support your exercise program.. 7.     Associate with others that also exercise.. In my 19 years helping others with their fitness, this error is responsible for more failed attempts than any other mistake.  I wish I could count the times that I have heard a person say that they want to start exercising and hope to do an Ironman distance triathlon the same year.  An Ironman triathlon may be a good long term goal, but it is not something you should attempt your first year as a triathlete.  Our local Fleet Feet store has a group program that starts would-be runners with a walk/jog program designed to get a beginner to a 3.1 run in six months.  They have several starting levels.  The first level beginners start with four minutes of walking, and one minute of jogging.  In a couple of weeks, they progress to three minutes of walking and one and half minutes of jogging.  In six months everyone does a 5 Kilometer race.  The store makes sure they have the right shoes.  They have few injuries and a high percentage that maintain their program.. If you join a preplanned program, this suggestion is already done for you.  If you are going to go out and exercise more than a couple of hours per week, spend a half of an hour designing a plan.  You would not start your vacation by jumping in the car and figuring out your destination as you head out.  Nor should you begin an exercise program without some written guideline.  There are plenty of books and free online "canned" programs available.  Many people hire a "coach" that will supervise the details of your exercise routine.  If you write it down, you probably double your chances of success.  There is something rewarding about checking off each workout..  .  have become fairly expensive.  People who would not balk at spending $100 for clothes, car accessories or even dinner, are reluctant to spend money for good running shoes.  This gets down to priorities.  You have to live in your body the rest of your life.  Would you pay a hundred dollars every four months for a pill that would keep weight off, give you energy and increase .  as you get older?  That is what the right equipment will do for you.  Shoes, bicycles and other equipment you need for exercise should be considered an investment in your health.. :  Given enough time, the human body is remarkably adaptable.  This rule applies to the beginner and Olympic athletes.   The rule of adaptation applies to all individuals.  In running, we have the 10 percent rule.  Do not increase your duration or your intensity by more than 10 percent a week.  If you are comfortable with two miles of walking this week, then you can step up to 2.2 miles next week.  When you get to your goal distance, then you can start working on the speed.  If you increase your speed and distance at the same time, you have a higher risk of injury.  That is not to say that some break the rule and get away with it.  What is the rush?  Give your body time to adapt and you will be amazed with your long term results.. :  A few years ago, I tried to stop at a convenience store on the way to an afternoon bike ride.  The store had economical, quick food.  Their hot dog only cost one dollar.  After two or three times being the last one of my group up the big hill, I figured out the problem.  Look at the contents of a cheap hot dog.  I substituted a couple pieces of fresh fruit.  I was back with the leaders.  Do not sabotage your exercise routine with junk calories.  If you want your body to develop to be a Porsche, make sure you are not fueling it with diesel fuel.  For many of us, adequate rest is a real challenge.  Work, children, church and leisure activities all compete for our time.  Often sleep deprivation is the result.  Especially as you get older, you should consider sleep as part of your exercise program.  Skimp on sleep, and your risk of injury and illness will increase.. If most of your social circle are out of shape and avoid exercise, it will make your progress more difficult.  In any endeavor, try to associate with the people that have what you want.  If you want to be fit, be around fit people.  The more time you spend with people that are successful in their exercise routine, the greater the chance you will also find success.. In our culture, health and fitness does not .  happen.  It takes some planning and long term effort.  I have often seen individuals start an exercise routine only to quit after a couple of months.  I want to tell them that the first eight weeks are the hardest.  After several starts, they eventually quit, thinking that an exercise routine is just too much trouble.  If you talk to those that are successful, nothing is further from the truth.  When you are fit, you look forward to your next workout.  If you have to skip a workout, you miss it and look forward to the next even more.  This is true for everyone!  You just have to gradually adapt your body to a routine of movement.  The benefits are too long to list.  Maybe if you can avoid some of the common mistakes I have outlined, you will be taking your health to a new level.. Be healthy, train smart. -Larry