 Researchers at the Joslin Diabetes Center in Boston have discovered a cell-regulating mechanism that they say plays a major role in metabolism and fat storage, possibly paving the way for new obesity treatments. The research in published in the journal . .. The mechanism, called a cell-cycle transcriptional co-regulator, manages the expression of DNA by either activating or suppressing genes. This particular regulator is called TRIP-Br2 and it works on the metabolic genes involved in . .. When researchers compared mice on a low-fat diet to mice on a high-fat diet, they found that the mice eating high-fat diets had higher levels of TRIP-Br2 in their fat tissue. When they tested this theory on human fat, they also found that TRIP-Br2 significantly elevated the level of visceral fat in obese humans. (.  and internal organs and has been found to be more harmful than fat elsewhere in a body, notably raising a person’s risk for heart disease and type 2 diabetes.). To further test the effect of TRIP-Br2, researchers fed groups of mice genetically engineered not to produce TRIP-Br2 either low-fat or high-fat diets. The mice on high-fat diets who did not have TRIP-Br2 in their bodies did not .  and had healthy blood sugar and insulin levels.. "This was surprising because, normally, any mammal on a high-fat diet would automatically put on body weight," says lead author Rohit N. Kulkarni, MD, PhD. This result suggests that suppressing TRIP-Br2 could eventually help control obesity in humans, Kulkarni says.. The results are particularly promising because biopsies of human fat appeared to be similar to the results of the mice study. "Many times when you move from mice to humans it’s slightly different," Kulkarni says. "But here it looks like there’s a solid link to pursue.". Kulkarni and his colleagues are next trying to identify what it is that leads to an accumulation of TRIP-Br2 and what regulates its expression in the body. In humans, the next steps are to identify who is most susceptible to high and low levels of TRIP-Br2 and determine whether . , such as diet and exercise, can reduce levels of TRIP-Br2 in obese individuals.