 — African Americans are more likely to die of cancer than whites, and they have a lower overall cancer survival rate, according to a new report from the American Cancer Society. These findings, just published in . , reflect the persistent problem of unequal health care access  in the United States that's largely due to socioeconomic disparities.. The report is based on data for the years 1975 to 2009 from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) program of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) and North American Association of Central Cancer Registries (NAACCR).. It's estimated that 176,620 African Americans will be diagnosed, and approximately 65,000 African Americans will die from some form of cancer in 2013. Cancer remains a pressing problem for African Americans; the cancer death rate for African-American men is 33 percent higher than for white men, while the cancer death rate for African-American women is 16 percent higher than for white women.. The ACS report finds the situation to be even more complex than overall death rates would imply.. "Half of it is good news, half is bad news," says Carol DeSantis, MPH, vice president of Surveillance and Health Services Research at the American Cancer Society and lead author of the paper. ".  and .  are good news: Rates are high but they’re declining — it’s true for both blacks and whites.". Lung cancer remains the biggest cancer killer among African Americans, however, accounting for 29 percent of deaths of black men diagnosed with cancer and 21 percent of deaths among black women. But the researchers found that the disparity in lung cancer rates between African Americans and whites has dropped by 50 percent, in the years 1990 to 1992, down to 26 percent in 2005. The researchers assert this is largely due to the success of .  programs, and because African American men quit smoking at a faster rate than white men.. Prostate cancer deaths account for 15 percent of cancer deaths among black men, while breast cancer accounts for 19 percent of deaths among black women.The most commonly-diagnosed cancers among African American men are:. Among African American women, the most common diagnoses are for:.  continues to affect African Americans at a growing rate, DeSantis says, and the death rate from .  among African American women still surpasses that for white women.. Though screening and treatment options have improved dramatically for many commonly-diagnosed cancers, whites continue to have better access to life-saving treatments, says the report.. "There are new and improved treatments, but whites are getting access to them" and African Americans are not, says DeSantis, because breakthrough treatments are less likely to be available in poorer and under-served communities.. "The health care system is very complicated," DeSantis adds. "It takes a lot of persistence to access care. You have to figure out all these treatments and coordinate." She says several agencies are working to improve access to screenings, including the Patient Navigation Program, which is run by the National Cancer Institute. It provides counseling and financial help to those in need, and guides patients through their treatment plans.. The highest cancer death rates among African Americans overall were found to be in Mississippi and Arkansas, two of the poorest states in the nation, and states in which access to health care can be difficult.. Christopher Lahr, MD, a colorectal surgeon at University of Mississippi Medical Center in Jackson, says he isn't surprised by the report. Dr. Lahr is one of just two colorectal surgeons in the entire state of Mississippi, and he sees countless patients with advanced colon cancer. "We see people from all over the state," says Lahr. "Well over half are African Americans. The stage and size of tumors when they present is much worse for African Americans than other races. A much larger percentage of our patients present with late stages of the disease.". Lahr believes many factors contribute to this problem. For example, in the Mississippi Delta, a rural, sparsely-populated, and economically disadvantaged region in the northwestern part of the state, many people lack access to doctors. Adding to the problem is lack of insurance. "If someone doesn't have insurance they don't get screening . ," Lahr says.. And tragically, some patients are told to disregard the symptoms that may indicate cancer. Lahr says he's had patients come in who report they've experienced heavy bleeding for some time but were told by medical professionals that they only had . .. "Black women are less likely to get breast cancer but more likely to die from it. It’s a very sad fact," says DeSantis. This is largely because African-American women are oftentimes treated at a much later stage in the disease, which increases their likelihood for death. Only half of all breast cancers detected among them were in an early stage, compared with 61 percent of white women screened for the disease, according to the report.. Karen Jackson, founder and CEO of Sisters Network, a national breast cancer advocacy organization for African-American women, says access to care isn't the only factor that contributes to this disparity. It is often due to a lack of information. "When I started Sisters, I was told by other agencies that African Americans don’t care about their health, that I was wasting my time. I’m glad I didn’t listen," she says. "If you lack knowledge as an individual, you can fall through the cracks.". Sisters Network, which has chapters in 43 U.S. cities and recently organized a 10-city national tour to encourage women to be screened regularly, has worked with communities all over the country to help improve detection rates, offer financial support to African-American women who are in need of treatment, and most of all to remind women again and again how they can keep themselves healthy.. Jackson, a 20-year breast cancer survivor, was among the 15 percent of women whose cancer wasn't detected by a . . At the time, Jackson, who is now 70 years old, fought with her doctor to have an ultrasound, which detected her cancer. After her own bout with breast cancer, she learned the value of advocating for yourself and taking charge of your treatment.. "Women just have to be more diligent and forthright about what they need and what they want," she says. "We find this message has to be received on a regular basis."