Often, people tend to overlook the construction materials that make up their own homes. Allen P. Rathey, President of the Healthy House Institute (HHI), hopes that his organization will change this behavior and shed light on the importance of consumer awareness when it comes to maintaining a .  environment. After 25 plus years of experience in the cleaning field, Rathey is an advocate of “cleaning for health.” With the Healthy House Institute, he looks to lead the way in educating homeowners on how to keep their homes from making them sick.. The goal of the Healthy House Institute, which went online in early 2007, is to become the premier source of healthy home information – providing deeper content for the consumer, the media, and the building community than had previously been widely available. HHI does not offer or endorse products; its mission is purely educational.. As Rathey explains, "In order to . , we need to live more mindfully. We need to educate ourselves. Evaluate our actions. Develop options. The Healthy House Institute helps people do that.”. Rathey also serves on the advisory board of the non-profit group Informed Green Solutions, which aims to educate the public on the benefits of .  purchasing and the impact homeowners’ decisions have on human health and the environment..  I entered the field of home ecology in 2004 when my son and I developed a Web site devoted to faster, healthier housekeeping. We soon learned that the category that generated the most traffic was the Web site’s health category. Researching the health aspects of home ecology led me to the doorstep of John and Lynn Bower, founders of the original Healthy House Institute. The Bowers’ passion for healthy houses was prompted by the 1980s remodeling of their Indiana farmhouse using traditional methods, materials, and types of finishes. After the couple moved in, Lynn became extremely ill. The diagnosis: chemical sensitivities. This event led the couple to research alternative methods of construction, finishing, and furnishing. In 1992, the couple founded the Healthy House Institute as a follow-up to a book they had written, . .. Over the next 13 years, they published four more books and six videos. The couple became regular speakers at conventions and respected resources for consumers, the media, and building tradespeople. When the Bowers closed the Institute in 2005 to pursue other career paths, I approached them with an offer to buy the domain name and all of the institute’s publications. The Bowers recognized that we were a good fit and decided that I was the right person to pick up their baton.. Home ecology is a broad, complex subject. We are striving to bring a community of professionals together to help consumers. To that end, HHI has an extensive and growing advisory board, comprised of an impressive array of knowledgeable sources. The board includes professionals from the health and medical fields, health sciences, home building and remodeling, architecture and interior design, and sustainability..  in the outdoors.  .  We have installed a heat recovery ventilator (HRV) in our home and are educational partners with the Home Ventilating Institute. A heat recovery ventilator is a ventilation device capable of transferring heat (and sometimes moisture) between two air streams. HRVs consume less energy by reducing, but not eliminating, the cost of tempering the incoming air. An HRV is first and foremost a ventilator, and second, offers a way to recover energy that would otherwise be wasted during the process of ventilating. We also have many exhaust and ventilation fans in our home to help keep the indoor air fresh.. We have a motto: The best way to achieve a healthy home is to apply the triple-healthy-home principle:. We summarize this principle as “Eliminate, isolate, ventilate.”