 Treatment with a type 2 diabetes drug that suppresses appetite and increases feelings of satiety may offer hope to severely overweight teens, researchers reported.. In a small, placebo-controlled randomized trial, the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist exenatide (Bydureon, Byetta) was associated with both lower body weight and body mass index (BMI), according to Aaron Kelly, PhD, of the University of Minnesota Medical School in Minneapolis, and colleagues.. Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists reduce body weight by slowing gastric motility and activating GLP-1 receptors in the hypothalamus in people with and without diabetes.. The "modest" reductions are preliminary evidence that the drug, approved for adults with type 2 diabetes, can be useful in adolescents with a BMI of 25 kg/m.  or higher, Kelly and colleagues reported online in . .. But they cautioned that the study was short in duration – just 3 months in the randomized phase followed by a further 3 months of open-label treatment – and included fewer than two dozen teens, ages 12 to 19.. "Larger studies with longer periods of treatment will be needed," they noted, "to evaluate the durability of the weight-loss effect over time.". Moreover, while the results of the trial were statistically significant, their clinical importance remains unclear, commented Jeffrey Schwimmer, MD, of the University of California San Diego, in an accompanying editorial.. Schwimmer noted that patients in the study were very obese, with an average BMI of 42.5 kg/m. , so that the reductions seen in the study would typically reduce body fat from 50 percent to at most 48.5 percent.. "Is this likely to be clinically meaningful?" Schwimmer asked.. The drug had been shown in a previous nonrandomized study to reduce BMI by about 5 percent. To extend those results, they studied outcomes of 22 adolescents randomly assigned to receive exenatide or placebo twice a day by subcutaneous injection twice daily for 3 months.. The randomized double-blinded part of the trial was followed by an open-label phase in which all patients got the drug. The primary endpoint was the change in BMI from baseline to the end of the randomized part of the study.. Participants in the randomized phase had a baseline BMI of greater than 42 kg/m. , at an average age of 15 g/m. .. Kelly and colleagues found that exenatide patients had an average reduction of 2.7 percent in BMI compared with placebo. They also had a reduction of 1.13 points in absolute BMI, compared with those in the placebo group.. During the open-label extension, those initially randomized to exenatide had a further drop in BMI, leading to cumulative decline of 4 percent. In contrast, those initially randomized to placebo had less than a 0.25 percent decline in BMI during their 3 months on the drug, Kelly and colleagues reported.. The reason for the latter finding remain unclear, Kelly and colleagues noted, adding "perhaps frustration with the lack of weight loss during the first 3 months and/or the unblinded nature of the open-label phase led to altered lifestyle behaviors for the remainder of the study.". Source: 