Your marriage might not last forever, but it's a guarantee your wedding photos will. Those pictures are just one of the reasons pre-wedding dieting has become almost a mandatory rite of passage for women preparing to walk down the aisle. In fact, a 2007 study at Cornell University found that 70 percent of engaged women said they wanted to .  by their wedding — usually about 20 pounds.. This phenomenon prompted .  to look at some of the more extreme measures women are taking to shed a few vanity pounds, and the results are shocking. One woman the .  profiled, Jessica Schnaider, 41, of Surfside, Fla., actually had a doctor insert a feeding tube, which fed her a drip of only 800 calories a day "while she went about her business, with a tube in her nose.". The feeding tube is part of the $1,500 K-E diet, which involves sticking a nasogastric tube that provides all nutrients, but no carbohydrates, for 10 days. In Schnaider's case, she actually had to have the tube removed earlier because she dropped 10 pounds off of her 137-pound frame in just eight days.. So are such extreme measures safe? Dr. Oliver R. Di Pietro, who performed the procedure on Schnaider, told the .  he monitors patients throughout the 10-day diet for side effects, such as dizziness and constipation, and says he was initially hesitant about the diet.. “At first I decided not to do it for people who just want to lose a few pounds,” Dr. Di Pietro says. “But then I thought, why should I say 5 or 10 pounds are not enough? People want to be perfect.”. Everyday Health's medical director, Mallika Marshall, MD, disagrees.. "Having a tube placed down your nose into your stomach is not only uncomfortable, but can also be risky with proper supervision," she says. "And severely restricting your calories, even in the short-term, is not an ideal way to lose weight. Many people feel just awful, often suffering from headaches, nausea, and lightheadedness. Who wants to wants to walk down the aisle feeling like that?". Another woman profiled by the . spent $950 on . , a hormone associated with pregnancy, to help her lose 14 pounds in six weeks. Other brides (and sometimes the members of their bridal parties) turned to increasingly popular . , which require dieters to consume nothing but juice for three to five days.. The .  also notes that some crash diets may be partially motivated by wedding-dress sizing: Dresses run small, so a woman who wears a size 10 may be more like a 12 or a 14 in a wedding dress, which can be a shock for women who are already planning to slim down for their big day.. And it seems the shedding for the wedding obsession isn't just limited to brides. Daisy Merey, MD, PhD, a bariatric medicine specialist in West Palm Beach, Fla., and author of . told Everyday Health that one popular reason her clients come to her is because they want to lose weight for a child's wedding. But the problem with being motivated by such a specific goal is that the weight often comes right back after the event is over.. “I had one patient who slimmed down because she was going on a cruise, but then she ate like mad on the cruise, and it all came back," Merey says.. However, if brides give themselves enough time to lose weight in a healthful way, using an upcoming wedding as motivation to get healthy can be a positive thing. "Start early to allow yourself to lose weight gradually," Marshall advises. "You'll feel better and have a better chance of keeping the weight off." If you want to lose weight for a special event, follow these tips: