 Care for a cuppa tea? If you do, rooibos tea may be the way to go.. Made from a bush found only in the Western Cape of South Africa, rooibos has a distinctive reddish color — which is why it’s also known as red bush tea — and a fruity flavor. The herb’s popularity outside its native land has soared in recent years, with annual exports quadrupling over a 13-year period, according to a recent article by . .. Besides its great taste, rooibos is a good alternative to regular teas because it contains no caffeine and is low in the potential irritant tannin (the cause of the bitter taste when you steep black or green tea for too long). And because it’s high in antioxidants, substances that protect the body from damage, rooibos may offer other health benefits, especially in warding off the .  common with many .  conditions.. As Chris Kilham writes on . , rooibos contains several different types of antioxidants, including quercetin, which has been found to have significant anti-inflammatory properties. So far there’s limited research on the tea’s effect in humans, but a 2010 Italian study published in .  found that drinking rooibos boosted antioxidant blood plasma levels in healthy volunteers.. If you have a sensitive stomach, rooibos may help. One Japanese study published in the journal .  found that feeding rooibos tea to rats increased antioxidant activity and reduced colitis inflammation. Perhaps not surprisingly, the South African Rooibos Council, a nonprofit industry group, says that the tea is a time-honored remedy in that country for colic and stomach cramps.. Rooibos also contains the less common antioxidants aspalathin and nothofagin, which can help lower levels of the stress hormone cortisol and reduce anxiety, according to a recent study in the . . Research is ongoing to look into the tea’s potential benefits for heart disease, cancer, diabetes, and more.. Not a tea lover? You may still want to give rooibos a try — .  quoted one café manager as calling it a “coffee drinker’s tea.” And with about 12,000 tons of rooibos tea being produced a year, according to AFP, you’re more likely than ever to find it in your local market.