 — New analysis of decades-old data surfaces unfavorable effects of the presumably .  linoleic acid — the most prevalent polyunsaturated omega-6 fatty acid — reopening a door to discussion of conventional advice about the best fats for heart health.. Researchers from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC), and the University of Illinois at Chicago evaluated unpublished data from the Sydney Diet Heart Study, a randomized, controlled trial conducted from 1966 to 1973 that included 458 men, aged 30 to 59, who had recent coronary events — a heart attack, for example. One group replaced saturated (animal) fats in their diets with omega-6 linoleic acid from .  and safflower oil margarine. In the new analysis of the study's results, the researchers found replacing dietary saturated fat with omega-6 linoleic acid actually resulted in higher rates of death from all causes, including from coronary heart disease and cardiovascular disease.. "I think it's a very important study and a well done study," says Alice H. Lichtenstein, D.Sc., director of the Cardiovascular Nutrition Laboratory at Tufts University in Boston and a spokesperson for the American Heart Association, who was not involved in the analysis. "I think there are a lot of differences between now and then, so it makes it difficult to put it into context.". One difference now, Dr. Lichtenstein explains, is that we consume much less saturated fat overall, and dietary guidelines don't recommend consumption of only one type of oil that is high only in omega 6 — like the safflower oil used in the study. "We're more concerned about the trans-fatty acid content of the diet, and focused more on LDL and HDL as opposed to total cholesterol.". "This particular study used safflower oil, which only contains omega 6, and we thought this provided a unique opportunity to look at the effects of omega 6," says study author Christopher E. Ramsden, MD, with NIH and UNC. "This one [study] was really unique because it let us look at linoleic acid [an omega-6] specifically.". Most dietary omega-6 fatty acids come from vegetable oils, says Joan Salge Blake, MS, RD, a clinical associate professor at Boston University, including corn oil, safflower oil, soybean oil, and . .. According to Lichtenstein, soybean oil (high in both omega-6 and omega-3 fatty acids) is where most people get their omega-6.. The most recent .  from the American Heart Association, released in 2009, supports getting at least 5 to 10 percent of daily total calories from omega-6 fatty acids, as part of a heart-healthy diet. To reduce omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids in your diet, the statement authors wrote, "would be more likely to increase than to decrease risk for [coronary heart disease].". "I'm not really trying to give diet advice," Dr. Ramsden says of his findings. His goal is to get the information out there. The findings are published in the .  as part of a theme, "recovering and analyzing different data in order to have a fuller view of the evidence," he says. "I think people who make diet advice will take it into consideration and use all the evidence available and come to the conclusion about what to recommend.". While saturated fat raises bad (LDL) cholesterol, healthy fats (the monounsaturated and polyunsaturated kinds) can reduce total cholesterol while raising good (HDL) cholesterol on the blood. Additionally, research shows omega-3 fatty acid, a polyunsaturated fat, can reduce inflammation, a marker for heart disease. Some evidence, however, suggests omega-6 fatty acids .  inflammation.. Past nutrition research emphasizes the importance of consuming a balance of omega-3 and omega-6 in diet. Both are "essential" fats, meaning the body doesn't make them and instead gets them from food. Some experts argue that people who eat Western diets take in too much omega 6 (found abundantly in seed and nut oils) and not enough .  like salmon. A typical American diet contains anywhere from 14 to 25 times more omega-6 fatty acids than omega-3 fatty acids, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center.