Decades after scientists and the U.S. government recognized the health dangers posed by air pollution, researchers have found three more medical problems it can cause — a rare, asthma-inducing allergy, obesity in kids, and the risk that women will give birth to babies who weigh less than they should.. Researchers at the Columbia University Center for Children's Environmental Health in New York City write in the .  that an asthma-inducing cockroach allergy is linked to air pollution. Their study found that children in urban areas have a higher risk of developing the cockroach allergy when exposed to air pollution at a younger age, especially those who have a common gene mutation known as GSTM.. "Allergy to cockroach is one of the greatest risk factors for asthma in low-income urban communities," said Matthew Perzanowski, PhD, lead study author, in a press release. "Our findings indicate a complex relationship between allergen and air pollution exposures early in life and a possible underlying genetic susceptibility. Combined, these findings suggest that exposures in the home environment as early as the prenatal period can lead to some children being at much greater risk for developing an allergy to cockroach, which, in turn, heightens their risk of developing asthma.". Researchers looked at 349 mother and child teams who participated in the university's study on mothers, newborns, and environmental exposures in Northern Manhattan and the Bronx. Exposure to the cockroach allergen was measured through analysis of household dust (a hotbed of insect feces, saliva, and other residue), and air collection to look  for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH), dangerous combustion products that contribute to air pollution from coal, tobacco, and oil. Blood samples were also taken to determine GSTM presence as well as allergy immunity.. The researchers found that 80 percent of homes harbored the cockroach allergen, and by age seven, 31 percent of the children had developed a cockroach allergy. Moreover, increased rates of cockroach allergies were found in kids whose mothers encountered elevated PAH levels while pregnant, proving air pollution's link to cockroach allergy development. The allergic effect was even greater in those kids who tested positive for GSTM, which is thought to inhibit the body's detoxification of PAHs.. A second study out of Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health and published in the . , found that the same type of air pollution — PAHs — is linked to increased obesity in children born to women exposed to high concentrations of it.. “Obesity is a complex disease with multiple risk factors. It isn’t just the result of individual choices like diet and exercise,” said lead study author Andrew G. Rundle, DrPH, professor of epidemiology at Mailman, . . “For many people who don’t have the resources to buy healthy food or don’t have the time to exercise, prenatal exposure to air pollution may tip the scales, making them even more susceptible to obesity.”. According to the U. S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, childhood obesity has more than tripled in the past 30 years. .  estimate that about 30 percent of children and adolescents age 2 to 19 were obese or overweight.. Researchers examined data collected from an air-sampling device placed on 702 pregnant women in their third trimester. Participants were low-income African American or Dominican women, between the ages of 18 and 35, and residing in NYC. Results revealed that the children of those women who encountered elevated levels of PAHs while pregnant were almost twice as likely to be obese by age five, and .  by age seven.. “Not only was their body mass higher, but it was higher due to body fat rather than bone or muscle mass,” added Dr. Rundle in the press release.. According to new research from the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), air contamination from power plants, cars, and heating is linked to low birth weight in newborns.. The study, published in . , examined birth data from the mid 1990s to the late 2000s, compiled by the International Collaboration on Air Pollution and Pregnancy Outcomes. Researchers analyzed information on more than three million births across the globe, and found that, worldwide, the higher the rate of pollution, the higher the rate of impaired fetal growth, which can lead to infant illness and death as well as health issues later in life.. "What's significant is that these are air pollution levels to which practically everyone in the world is commonly exposed," said study co-principal investigator Tracey J. Woodruff, PhD, MPH, professor of obstetrics and gynecology and reproductive sciences at UCSF, in a press release. "These microscopic particles, which are smaller than the width of a human hair, are in the air that we all breathe.". "In the United States, we have shown over the last several decades that the benefits to health and well-being from .  are far greater than the costs. This is a lesson that all nations can learn from," added Dr. Woodruff in the press release.