 Four months after steroid injections from the New England Compounding Center (NECC) contributed to a deadly nationwide fungal meningitis outbreak that killed 44 people, 11 more Massachusetts-based compounding pharmacies have been ordered  to shut down. In addition, the U.S. Centers for Diseases Control is under fire for the way it responded to the outbreak and its treatment recommendations.. In October 2012, during the peak of the outbreak, an investigation traced the contaminated steroids back to NECC. The Massachusetts Department of Public Health (MDPH) later said that the center was . , and federal agents . .. Since that raid, the MDPH has conducted random inspections at 40 compounding pharmacies and just imposed disciplinary action: 11 pharmacies have been ordered to completely, or partially, shut down due to failure to meet state standards, and an additional 21 pharmacies have been cited for minor offenses.. The 11 closed pharmacies were not thought to be sources of the contaminated steroid shots, which . , leading to 678 cases of meningitis.. The announcement of these shutdowns comes one day after two commentaries on the CDC's handling of the outbreak were published online in the journal . .. The first commentary, . , questioned the treatment options recommended by the CDC in response to the meningitis outbreak. Stevens offered several suggestions that he claimed “are alternative approaches worthy of consideration." He took exception to the initial CDC recommendation to use only two specific antifungal drugs, and not to use antifungal chemotherapy, to prevent the spread of meningitis.. “The CDC’s initial recommendations for therapy of affected cases were to use systemic voriconazole . liposomal amphotericin B for therapy,” explained Dr. Stevens in the article. “Not to routinely use intrathecal mphotericin, and not to use antifungal chemotherapy for prophylaxis.”. The . , and addressed some of Stevens’ concerns regarding preventative antifungal therapy.. “[The] CDC developed a decision analysis model to estimate the risks and benefits of administering antifungal agents to asymptomatic persons,” stated the commentary, written by a group of scientists that included one CDC official.. This model compared three different options for treating asymptomatic patients in an effort to stop the spread of meningitis. One option was to closely monitor patients. The other two options were more aggressive: perform a spinal tap for diagnostic purposes or start antifungal treatment on all exposed patients. the latter representing an option similar to what Stevens suggested in his commentary.. However, the CDC’s model predicted that giving antifungal treatment to all exposed patients offered the highest risk for drug-related side effects.. “Clinicians must carefully weigh the benefit of treatment of asymptomatic patients with the significant expense associated with drug acquisition, monitoring drug levels and substantial drug-drug interactions,” the commentary stated.