When we lived in Athens, we had a dear family friend who had known me and my sister since we were little girls. He lived in Thessaloniki, the cosmopolitan capital of northern Greece, where my mother was from. He was a classically warm, exuberant, generous Greek man, the kind we wish we could import more of into the U.S.! Whenever he came to Athens, he would visit us, and we all looked forward to his visits, which usually included bringing our favorite Greek sweets — baklava, melomakarona cookies, and tsoureki, the traditional sweet braided bread. This man was a very successful con­tractor, married to a very difficult, demanding woman who always seemed to be complaining about something.. One time he came to visit us after we hadn’t seen him in some time. When he arrived at our apartment, he seemed out of breath after climbing the stairs to our door. It was clear that he was stressed and overworked; he looked run down, and he had put on weight. But when we sat down to dinner, he told us how well things were going in his life. He was thrilled about a new con­tract he had just won, to build a new museum in Thes­saloniki. My mother listened for a little while without comment. Then she said to him, “I don’t care how well your business is doing — you’re not taking care of . . You’re smoking, you’re eating fatty foods, you’re stay­ing up late and getting up early — you’re going to end up with a heart attack!” She went on: “Your business might have a great bottom line, but .  are your own most important capital. Banking involves both withdrawing and depositing. There are only so many withdrawals you can make from your bank account, and you just keep on withdrawing. You could go bankrupt if you don’t make some deposits soon.”. “I’m fine, Elli,” he said, laughing. “I’ve just been under a lot of pressure.”. But to my mother this was no laughing matter, and she got right up from the table and made a call to her own doctor. My mother made an appointment for our friend to see her cardiologist the following day, right there in Athens. To his surprise, though not to hers, they found that he had blocked arteries and needed to be ad­mitted to the hospital right away for an . . My mother had more than likely saved his life.. A few years later, when the museum was finished, my mother got a package in the mail. It was the catalog of the museum’s first exhibition, inscribed: . .. “Take care of your capital”: that’s what my mother would say anytime she saw us being pulled in too many directions, depleted by inner and outer demands. It was her favorite phrase when she needed to remind us to take care of ourselves; she meant that the smartest in­vestment you could make was investing in your self. That profound metaphor still echoes in me now. How we conserve, spend, or invest our energy on a daily and even a moment-to-moment basis defines our lives. We have a responsibility to be good custodians of our gifts.. What does it really mean to take care of ourselves? How do we find where our energy is leaking? Where do we start?.  My mother was very big on sleep. Sleep was sacred to her. If somebody was sleeping, there was nothing in the world that would make her interrupt that sleep. To her, it was a big investment in capital. You would reap the profits when you were awake. Whenever one of us came to her with a problem that needed solv­ing, small or big, she wouldn’t feel pressure to come up with an instant answer; she would simply say, “Let it marinate overnight.” She regarded sleep as a way that our consciousness worked out stress and found solutions to problems in our waking life..  Food was another important investment in my mother’s portfolio. When we were young girls in Ath­ens, there were long, delicious meals after school when we sat at the kitchen table and talked over the day. It was a time for us to unwind and reconnect over stuffed cabbage leaves, feta cheese, and tsoureki. My mother abhorred the whole notion of fast food so prevalent in America; to her, there should be nothing fast about food. When she saw people gobbling their food or eating on the run, she would say, “You’re eating mechanically.” She always reminded us that eating is meant to be a rit­ual, a way of communing with others and nurturing the body and soul. If she were alive today, she would regard as sacrilege the practice of keeping a BlackBerry on the table and checking e-mails or texting throughout a meal.. And then there was time out for your body and soul: my mother brought yoga and meditation into our lives from the time we were teenagers to help us learn to breathe, relax, and understand the value of center­ing ourselves. Of course, when you are 13, the thought of cultivating stillness is not exactly your idea of a good time, but my agile body took very easily to doing headstands..  My mother knew that they can pay div­idends or they can put you in the red. She knew how to distinguish between the givers and the takers and those who were impoverished at heart. She taught us how true friendships recharge us and renew us. She knew that en­ergy follows thoughts — some thoughts bring us down, others lift us up. Good friends know us well enough to catch us when our thoughts are spiraling downward, and they help us reflect our better nature. It’s so easy to close ourselves off in the world in order to protect our­selves. My friendships are a big part of keeping my heart open, giving me a safe place where I can be vulnerable. There, at our own little kitchen table, as we listened to each other’s stories of the day, I learned the sacredness of a safe place. For years, my mother and my sister and I were like riverbanks for each other, providing a pro­tected channel to flow into the world.. Sometimes it’s easier to be generous with others than with ourselves — but being kind and compassionate with ourselves always gives a great return on our investment. Life can be so much more purposeful when we make ourselves a priority. This is not to be confused with self-indulgence; so many of our difficulties arise because we don’t think enough of ourselves to take care of ourselves first. There’s a wonderful quote that I love — “Treat your­self as if you were someone inexpressibly dear to you.” Why would we expect others to treat us better than we treat ourselves?.  Unbinding the Heart 