Powerful prescription painkillers like .  and Vicodin (also known as narcotics or opioids) are more available now than ever, with sales to pharmacies and health-care providers increasing more than 300 percent since 1999, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. And while these drugs can bring welcome relief to people coping with chronic pain or recovering from surgery or injuries, they're also prime targets for abuse.. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control recently released some alarming new facts about just how dangerous these drugs can be: More than 40 people die every day from overdoses involving narcotic pain relievers - a greater death toll than that of heroin and cocaine combined. Many of these deaths are linked to nonmedical use of these drugs; that is, using them without a prescription or taking them to get high.. "These statistics aren't surprising at all," says Reef Karim, MD, director and founder of The Control Center in Beverly Hills, Calif., and assistant clinical professor at UCLA Semel Institute for Neuroscience. "We are a society that's very fast-moving, that involves a lot of technology, and that sees people looking for a quick fix to deal with whatever it is they have going on in their lives. Part of that quick fix may be popping a pill to feel better or to deal with their own stressors. There's a whole host of reasons why someone might be using pills for nonmedical reasons - it might be to relieve pain, to escape from a difficult time, or to get high.". Looking back, 51-year-old Leslie Miller of Newport, R.I., believes that "painkillers were actually at the very end of my history of . ." Although she would drink alcohol and smoke marijuana, Miller thought of herself as a social drinker and was able to maintain a busy schedule running an entertainment agency. But in 2003 she was prescribed OxyContin after bowel resection surgery to relieve complications from . . "And that's when the horror started," she says.. While at first Miller took the drug as prescribed - to relieve pain - she says that after a while, "I loved it, absolutely loved it. I wanted more and more." Miller went on what she describes as a "three-month run carrying on when I should have been resting. I was carousing around my town and partying. I acted like a total nutcase.". Given a prescription for a month's worth of OxyContin at a time, Miller went back to her same surgeon for refills three times. When she returned a fourth time, though, "he said that he wouldn't continue to support my drug-seeking behavior." She was given the pain reliever Tylenol 3 (Tylenol combined with codeine, a much milder opiate painkiller), but no referral for counseling or detox services. The result, Miller says, was "two weeks of the worst pain I've ever had in my life." After "suffering in silence" with shakes, fevers, and terrible pain, Miller says, her anger led her to begin abusing alcohol and other drugs. It wasn't until she accompanied a friend in recovery to a 12-step meeting in April 2004 that she recognized "that I needed help.". "Some people that you would never think in a million years would become .  will. It doesn't carry the stigma of heroin or cocaine, but the disease is the disease, whether it comes in the form of a prescription or as a bag of heroin." says Dr. Karim. In fact, a recent study presented at the annual meeting of the American Public Health Association found that prescription opioid overdoses were more common among white, middle-age females - not exactly the prevalent public image of addiction - than in other demographic groups.. Don't be fooled by appearances, says Miller: "People with addiction problems could be walking around in business suits." She uses herself as an example: Before she entered recovery, Miller was making money, paying her bills, and "looked good on the outside." But, she says, she was emotionally neglecting her children and her relationships. "I'd come home from work and say 'don't talk to me for an hour.' I had to have my drink first.". "Drug addiction itself does not discriminate," says Karim. "In the prescription pill world, you're going to see housewives, CEOs, Fortune 500 heads, athletes - it crosses all lines, because we all see doctors and we all have pain.". "I've had more opportunities to use drugs from doctors than I've had from any person on the street," says Miller. In 2005, while in recovery, she underwent surgery again and spoke to both of her doctors about her history. "I told them, I want nothing by mouth afterward, I don't want any opiates." Yet one of her surgeons wanted to prescribe her Vicodin; the other, Percocet.. "Ultimately, it's up to the person and the individual what they decide to put in their body," says Karim. "But [doctors] can help with this crisis by only prescribing what's necessary. Instead of prescribing 100 tabs of OxyContin, if we think the patient can do well with 30, then we should prescribe 30." Most doctors overprescribe to make it easier on the patient, he notes. "My job is to assess who's drug-seeking and call them out on it. But the average doctor doesn't have the luxury of the time I might have to figure it out." He also says it's important for doctors to let their patients know which drugs have abuse potential.. Another issue may be a lack of training and awareness among doctors of signs of addiction. "There are some medical schools where you get almost no addiction training," says Karim. "Now, because of the outbreak in addiction problems, you're seeing it more.". Miller says, "I would like to see doctors get more informed about recognizing the signs of addiction and then making a referral.". If you're prescribed opioid medications after you undergo surgery or suffer an injury, the doctor will normally tell you for about how long you'll need the drug. "If your body is still jonesing for the drug after that time period, you know there's a problem," Karim says. However, "very often, the addict doesn't realize they're an addict.". But, he notes, most people know when they're craving a medication. "Ask yourself, 'Why do I still need this? Am I still in . ?'". Family and friends are also likely to notice the telltale signs of addiction - for example, if the addict is no longer able to meet work or family responsibilities. There are also physical signs. "For opiates, it's being a little spacey or having dilated pupils," he says. "They could even get psychotic if they take too much.". Not all opioid addicts get their supply from a doctor. According to the National Survey on Drug Use and Health, more than 70 percent of those who abuse prescription pain relievers get the drugs from friends or relatives. If you need to take prescription pain medications, there are lockboxes or drug safes available to keep pills protected from others, whether family members or visitors in your home.. And when you’re done taking a prescription medication, toss it - don’t let it linger in your medicine cabinet.. "If it's a pill you don't need anymore, I would get rid of it," Karim says. Pills can be crushed or broken with a garbage disposal or with a hammer; they shouldn't be dropped into the trash whole. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration sponsors .  every six months where consumers can safely dispose of unwanted medications at specially designated sites in their communities.. Now celebrating seven years sober, Miller works in recovery peer-to-peer support at the .  in Pawtucket, R.I. She's also the liaison at Anchor for the Rhode Island Community for Addiction Recovery Efforts, Inc . . "Addicts need both .  and medical support," she says, adding that there are many paths to recovery - including 12-step programs, church, state agencies, or organizations like the United Way. "Go get professional help if you can't stop on your own.". "There's no shame in understanding that different people have different vulnerabilities with their brains and their bodies," says Karim. "You have to get past the denial and the stigma, but if you do, the treatment is there. All you have to do is find it.". "This is a disease of isolation and secrets," Miller says. "People need to know they're not alone. Reach out and get help - don't be ashamed."