 The high rate of intracerebral hemorrhage among young Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders appears to be related to race, researchers suggested.. In a cohort of 384 patients with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), Native Hawaiians or other Pacific Islanders were five times more likely to experience hemorrhagic stroke than Asians, according to Kazuma Nakagawa, MD, of the Queen's Medical Center in Honolulu, and colleagues.. That association was independent of all other risk factors, including the use of methamphetamine.. Moreover, on average Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders were younger — 54 versus 68 — than Caucasians when they experienced ICH, researchers reported here at the International Stroke Conference.. "The Native Pacific Islander population has been aggregated with Asians in stroke studies, but there are clear differences that are unique to this population," Nakagawa told . . "We need to study this population as a separate race from Asians so we can effectively intervene to reduce their cardiovascular risk.". Nakagawa and colleagues had previously conducted a study that found higher rates of cardiovascular risk factors for Native Hawaiians or other Pacific Islanders, as well as a disparity in age at the time of ICH onset compared with Asians and whites.. It was unclear, however, whether the high rate of methamphetamine abuse among native Pacific Islanders was the real reason for the increased risk of ICH. To find out, they performed the current retrospective study.. Nakagawa and colleagues reviewed the records of 384 ICH patients who were treated at the Queen's Medical Center, the only primary stroke center in the state of Hawaii, between 2006 and 2010. Of these patients, 19 percent were Native Pacific Islanders, 65 percent were Asians, and 16 percent whites.. Researchers found the incidence of ICH in those younger then 45 was significantly higher in Native Hawaiians/Pacific Islanders (26 percent) compared with Asians (9 percent) and Caucasians (6 percent).. The Native Pacific Islander cohort also had a higher rate of methamphetamine use (10 percent) compared with Asians (6 percent) and whites (3 percent).. Additionally, twice as many Pacific Islanders had diabetes compared with whites (36 percent versus 19 percent) and the same was true regarding hypertension (32 percent versus 15 percent).. To determine independent predictors of ICH, researchers constructed four models: unadjusted, adjusted for meth use, adjusted for meth use and untreated hypertension, and fully adjusted (age, all vascular risk factors, and meth use).. But the use of methamphetamine did not escape culpability. In all four models, methamphetamine use was also independently associated with ICH in young Native Hawaiians or other Pacific Islanders.. "Further studies are needed to determine factors other than methamphetamine abuse that are contributing to the young age of ICH presentation in this unique racial group," researchers concluded.. Source: 