 — People who grew up in states where the .  are more likely to be binge drinkers in adulthood, according to a new study published in the journal . .. Researchers from the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis tracked more than 39,000 people who started drinking in the 1970s, when 36 states had legal drinking ages of either 18 or 19 — below the current federally-imposed of 21. The researchers found that while people who grew up in those states didn’t consume more alcohol than people in other states, they were more likely to binge drink when they did.. Binge drinking is defined as drinking enough in a two-hour span to have a blood alcohol concentration of 0.08, according to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism; typically, that means five drinks for a man and four for a woman.. The author of the study, Andrew Plunk, PhD, a post-doctoral research fellow in psychiatry, says that when people start drinking at a younger age, when they may not have the best judgment, they may develop a bad habit of drinking to excess.. People who are younger are more . , and they’re more like to do a lot of things to excess,” Dr. Plunk says  “They’re less likely to think about the consequences. I think it’s likely that it just makes bad habits. Drinking at a young age probably leads to drinking heavily at an older age.”. Daniel Koso, a 49-year-old self-proclaimed alcoholic who admits that he binge drinks several times a month, is well aware of the dangers. Growing up in New York State, which had a drinking age of 18 in the 1970s, Koso began drinking even younger, when he was only 14 years old.. “At one point, I had .  and . ,” Koso says. “The drinking caused the pancreatitis and led to the risky behavior that caused me to contract hepatitis.”. Frequent binge drinking is linked to a multitude of health problems, including the liver and pancreatic conditions Koso had, as well as car crashes, alcohol poisoning, sexually transmitted diseases, and neurological damage, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.. While you might expect binge drinking to occur mainly on college campuses, the researchers found that people who did not attend college were more likely to become frequent binge drinkers. People who grew up in states where the drinking age was younger than 21 and who did not attend college were 31 percent more likely to binge drink that a college-educated person in a state with an older drinking age.. “We always talk about . , but we don’t think about adults not in college,” Plunk says. “It’s a population that’s already at a little bit of a disadvantage.”. While binge drinking may be impossible to stop completely, there are some measures that could help reduce the risks. A Canadian study published in the journal .  found that increasing alcohol prices by 10 percent led to a 32 percent reduction in alcohol-related deaths.. Plunk believes that increasing the price of alcohol in the United States could help stop underage drinking.. “When you start increasing price, people who are purchasing something illegally — like someone who is underage — fewer of those people purchase the item,” he says. “One of the things that doesn’t get stressed enough is the impact [of higher alcohol prices or taxes] on children.”. But Koso, who is on disability and makes barely enough to live on, thinks raising alcohol prices wouldn’t deter drinkers, young or old.. “I think that’s silly,” he says. “If the prices were to increase, I’d still be at the liquor store.”