 — The kitchen is the true home to good ole southern hospitality — fried chicken smothered in gravy, moist and crumbling cornbread, creamy grits and delicious collard greens, topped with a big fat piece of peach cobbler. But according to new research out of the University of Alabama at Birmingham and presented yesterday in Hawaii at the annual International Stroke Conference, those who regularly eat a quintessential . .. Researchers analyzed self-reported diets, which included 56 different foods, as well as dietary habits of 20,000 Southerners age 45 and older from 2003 to 2007. Study subjects also participated in physical examinations and blood tests. In six month intervals over five years, doctors recorded all reports of stroke.. The study found that people who consumed a Southern-style diet about six times a week had a 41 percent increase in stroke risk compared to those who consumed the goodies once a month. Among African Americans, the stroke impact of a Southern diet was 63 percent.. "Diet is an understudied risk factor for stroke," lead study author Suzanne Judd, PhD, of the University of Alabama at Birmingham told . . "What was surprising about what we found was that when eating certain foods in the Southern diet — fried foods, organ meats, gizzards, sweet tea — even when you account for other factors such as smoking, obesity, and physical activity, people still experienced a 30 percent increase in stroke risk.". However, to the contrary, some . . "There are other foods in the Southern-style diet which are good," added Dr. Judd. "Collard greens, for example. Just having a little more whole grains, fruits and vegetables, and lean protein sources — chicken without the skin, fish that isn't fried — gives you an across-the-board 20 percent reduction in stroke risk.". Previous data has shown that Southerners are 20 percent more likely to experience a stroke than other Americans. According to the . , stroke in the fourth leading cause of death and a leading cause of disability in the United States. It claims the lives of 1 in 18 Americans — 160,000 a year — reports the . .. If you would like to learn how to prepare ingredients that play a big part of the traditional Southern diet — greens, chicken, even pork — in non-traditional, healthier ways, . .