 The key to unlocking a remedy for some of the most deadly maladies in U.S. intensive care units — . , sepsis, and multi-organ failure — may lie in restricting ordinary digestive enzymes, according to new research published in . .. Previously, researchers had assumed that .  was responsible for the deterioration of bodily tissue, specifically in .  cases. But clinical trials to find ways to combat those intestinal toxins have proven ineffective.. Though a majority of research points to something that occurs in the membrane of the small intestine as the culprit behind shock- and . , much remains unknown about the actual role the membrane plays in each illness.. Now, scientists at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD), are speculating that autodigestion — a process in which digestive enzymes ebb into and then move past the intestinal wall, digesting it and other organs — is to blame.. "Organisms rely on full containment of the digestive enzymes in the small intestine," said Geert W. Schmid-Schönbein, PhD, bioengineering professor at . , in a press release. "The moment the intestinal mucosal barrier is compromised, the digestive enzymes escape and then we are no longer digesting just our food, but we may be digesting our organs.". Anything from significant blood loss to a puncture wound, among other things, can serve as a catalyst for the disruption in the intestinal lining that triggers the enzymes' release. Researchers are now stressing the need to .  within the intestinal wall to reverse the course of shock, sepsis, and multi-organ failure.. When they injected digestive enzyme blockers into the small intestines of rats who had suffered shock, scientists observed a decrease in condition fatality, a reduction in lung and heart injury, and an increase in long-term survival from 16 to 86 percent. "We saw far less damage to organs, faster recovery of the animals, and a reduction of mortality in shock," said Frank DeLano, PhD, study research associate at UCSD’s Jacobs School of Engineering, in the press release.. Though more research and testing is required, scientists hope that inhibiting digestive enzymes will provide future .  when combating the often deadly repercussions of sepsis, shock, and organ failure.