The opening shot of Steven Soderbergh’s film . , which opened February 8, tips you off that something bad is going to happen. Very bad.  The camera makes a slow, aerial approach through New York City buildings, leading us into one particular window, and then pans through a blood-splattered apartment. You know the film stars Jude Law, Channing Tatum, Rooney Mara, and Catherine Zeta-Jones, and you wonder:  Did one of them kill? Was one of them a victim of a brutal crime? Did someone hurt themselves? The mind grasps to know more, and it will, until the very end of this gripping psychological thriller as it takes you through an emotionally riveting series of twists and turns.. The movie focuses a .  (Rooney Mara) diagnosed with depression who is preparing for the return of her husband (Channing Tatum) who has been in prison serving time for a white-collar crime. A failed suicide attempt lands her in an emergency room where she is treated by a psychiatrist (Jude Law). After he became convinced she would not try again, he puts her on antidepressants and psychotherapy to keep her out of the hospital. She has undesirable side effects from one medication, so he switches her to a new medicine. Along the way, he consults with her former psychiatrist (Catherine Zeta-Jones).. Since this is a thriller, we won’t give away the very intense and wildly twisting plot. But the film’s technical advisor, Sasha Bardey, MD, a forensic psychiatrist who has consulted on .  and other TV dramas, confirms the film is medically accurate and that the story grew out of his work with prison inmates through Bellevue Hospital in New York City.  “Scott Burns [the writer] wanted to make it a very realistic kind of psychiatric thriller,” Dr. Bardey says. “He wanted the action to be very credible from a psychiatric perspective. As he was creating a fictional part of the story, he would bounce ideas off of me or ask me how this could happen in a credible psychiatric way, and then we would figure out in a way that would be as close to reality as possible and at the same time meet the needs of a Hollywood thriller.” The film does include one total fabrication: . .. The plot may sound simple, but it is complex and layered — and a side effect could be that it may unnerve you. The seed of the story was planted 10 years ago when Burns spent time with Bardey while they worked on . , a TV drama based on Bellevue Hospital.  Bardey was a technical advisor as well as one of the psychiatrists on the prison ward. He says some of the incidents that occured there inspired the script that would become . .. We talked to Bardey about depression, drugs, side effects, and how Hollywood measures up to reality in . ..  I would answer, “Yes, it can.” Whether we are talking about side effects to medications. Whether we are talking about these essential twists or the ultimate outcome, all of those are possible. What makes this a work of fiction is that it all happens all at once to one character in one timeline, with one psychiatrist. That is sort of creative, but each individual element of this has a basis in reality.. She does a very good job of behaving, speaking, and looking like someone who has a major depression disorder. That’s a credit to the brilliant acting. The way she carries herself, the way she talks, the way she looks. It’s absolutely believable the way she portrays it.. I think that’s one possibility. One possibility is — and she kind of explains it — she had so many hopes and had a golden ticket. When [her husband] gets taken away from her, she has a catastrophic reaction — whether it's depression or rage, or both, or one that turns into the other. A more creepy possibility is that she’s always been like that and there’s a whole other back story to her that we don’t know — even though she presents herself as this innocent loving person.. In psychiatry in general, we don’t have the blood tests and the MRIs and X-rays like other fields of medicine do.  If someone comes in and says, I fell off my bike and my arm’s twisted, I can take an X-ray and see a broken bone. I don’t really need the patient to tell me anything else. In psychiatry, we really count on our patients to tell us how they are feeling — whether it is how they are feeling through the diagnosis, or how they are responding to our treatments.  Some of them might be telling the truth, some of them might not. Sometimes I’ll say to the person, Can I talk to your husband or wife because they’ll have a more objective assessment of how you are doing. .  remains more of a mystery, where the trust you have between a doctor and patient and how you are able to read that information correctly is much more subtle then if you go see a dermatologist and you have a rash and either the rash is getting better or it’s not. You are relying on the person telling you.. Most of these tests are self-reported tests. The Beck’s Depression Inventory is a gold standard, and an easy-to-administer test on depression. Although the person is filling out a box and you’re scoring it, it’s not a blood test, it’s not an MRI. There is still a very big subjective component to it. I would say the vast majority of our patients are honest and open and tell us what they believe to be the truth. But you could see how that could open the door to someone who will try to manipulate the system if they so choose. I see that more as a forensic psychiatrist because that’s what I do for a living.. A forensic psychiatrist works right at the line between psychiatry and the law. Wherever there is a legal question that requires any psychiatric evaluation, that’s where a forensic psychiatrist works. For example, in the criminal justice system, it would be evaluating if someone was sane or insane at the time they committed a crime.. I think so. It’s pretty much what he does and how he does it — even down to speaking with that patient in French. I speak French. Another example is his office in the movie is a Hollywood version of my office. I am on a high floor; I have a nice view of buildings. The set designers and the wardrobe people all spent a lot of time with me in preproduction. I think in their minds — my office, the ways I worked, the way I looked — became the model for the Jude character. And Jude Law spent a lot of time with me. He was in my office for many hours, talking about what I do, and to whatever degree he picked up on anything, I would think there is a lot of me in that character.. I think so. Jude, right off the bat, zeroed in on a crucial aspect of mental health treatment in general, which are the issues of boundaries with patients.  This movie is very much about boundaries that get pushed and boundaries that get broken. And he zeroed in on that as a central issue that would guide his behavior throughout his scenes in the movie.  And I think he really gets it.  His character starts as a really well-meaning guy who truly believes that pharmacotherapy can really help patients. But in addition he’s also interested in their emotional state and what’s going on with them. Some of the people who saw the movie said they never realized the degree to which a psychiatrist can be naïve.  And I think that he portrays that fairly well, and I think that’s accurate as well.. As I said before, we have to believe our patients. We can’t rely, necessarily, on blood tests and X-rays to tell us what’s really going on, so we tend to be a little gullible and naïve, which can sometimes open the door for abuse. This is not just psychiatrists. This is doctors in general. If a patient comes in and tells you they're in a lot of pain because of a back injury they had, it’s really hard to prove that, and it’s hard to disprove that. And so you want to believe your patients. So sometimes you give the patient the benefit of the doubt and you write them a prescription. And sometimes you’re duped.. No. It’s one of the hardest calls that we need to make. Just because someone does something self-injurious does not necessarily mean they end up in the hospital. Each state is different, whether it’s a three-day observation, a two-week observation, seven days, or 30 days. Different states have different statutes that govern that. But you really have to weigh carefully the decision that completely deprives someone of their freedom by locking them up in a hospital versus protecting them and their family from self-injury and suicide. Each case you weigh a number of factors — you weigh the person’s history, his support networks, whether or not it was an impulsive act or whether it was an act that was really organized or thought through. You weigh these different things and you come up at the end with what you hope to be the right balance of maintaining their safety and also respecting their autonomy. So there’s no cookie-cutter answer. Each evaluation is different. And each call is sometimes very hard to make.. They’re legitimate side effects. And he switches her medication because she is having side effects, which is certainly not an uncommon thing.  These medications are great, they save millions of lives, and they reduce people’s suffering, but the fact is, you’re putting a foreign substance in the body and side effects can occur.. Not uncommon at all. A large percentage of antidepressants are prescribed by internists.  Typically, if the person develops side effects to that medication, that’s when the internist will make a referral to a psychiatrist — to help go to the next level of treatment. This could mean changing antidepressants, or changing the dose, or adding a second agent. If you’re getting good response with side effects, you may try and find a medication to reduce side effects. If you’re not getting a good response and you are getting side effects, you may scrap that completely and start with something completely different.. (Big laugh.) No, that’s why Albixa is one of the make-believe drugs. We created a kind of unique profile for that particular medication. A lot of the SSRIs and SSNRIs can impact someone’s sex drive or sexual performance, but some of them don’t decrease it as much. There are no antidepressants that actually increase the sex drive; although I would say that loss of libido is a common symptom of depression, so it’s not unusual for someone who’s responding to an antidepressant to find, again, an interest in sex — so that’s the depression getting better. Even in her case, she’s responding to the Ablixa. So it’s not the Albixa which is increasing her sex drive as a side effect, it's more that the depression getting better and causing her to find her sexual libido once again.. I know, isn’t that funny? It’s amazing because all that was written way before he became the sexiest man alive. He was great in it. It definitely is a new role for him, and it’s really nice to see him kind of get cast against typecast. He gave a great performance, and it's certainly very much a part of the central twist of the story.. These kinds of side effects can occur, especially with some of the sleep medications. It would be exceedingly rare for it to occur with any of the known antidepressants, antipsychotics, or mood-stabilizing medications that we prescribe now. So it is a side effect of certain medications. It became a side effect to this particular medication that we invented.  But it’s a very, very rare side effect to occur in an anti-depressant.   Keep in mind the genesis of that kind of side effect would be that parts of your brain are put to sleep.  So it’s typically going to be medications that are sedating. Alcohol makes people do things in a blackout state, but prescribed medications that cause you to be sedated can make you do things that you don’t necessarily remember.  There have been some medications that can impact your memory of events.. There are millions of people in this country who suffer from severe mental illness, . , psychosis, who aren’t getting the treatment they need. So on one end of the spectrum, there are a lot of people who don’t have access or who don’t want access. On the other end of the spectrum, though, as these medications become safer and more effective, the threshold for prescribing them is falling. There is a lot more direct marketing to patients, now, of these medications. So more and more, patients are coming into your office with an expectation that they’re going to walk out with a prescription or a sample in their hand. There’s more of that kind of thing going on, where the patient is coming in with an agenda. And you as a doctor either go along with it that agenda or you have to talk your patient out of whatever idea they had. And I think in general we do live in a quick-fix society. We want our food fast, we want our Internet even faster, and I think we want our treatment for our emotional problems to be ever quicker as well. So there is a tendency to try to fix problems quickly, and clearly .  can play a role in doing that. It’s a quicker fix than psychotherapy is, although ultimately maybe not as long-lasting a change, and certainly psychotherapy has few side effects. At the end of the day, it’s a combination of both of those things which work best — psychotherapy and medication.