 What a doctor believes about obesity can seriously impact an individual patient's care, according to a results of a physician survey conducted by researchers at the Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health.. Physicians who believe that overeating is a "very important" cause of obesity are significantly more likely to counsel patients to modify nutrition habits through reduced portion sizes, . , and decreased consumption of sugar-sweetened drinks. Therefore, researchers say, educating primary care physicians on the top causes of obesity could improve obesity care, "particularly concrete dietary tips that primary care physicians can easily share with their patients," lead author Sara Bleich, PhD, said in a release.. Few of the 500 physicians surveyed for the report, published in . , thought that genetics, family history, or a metabolic defect were important causes of obesity.. This indicates that doctors may blame the obesity crisis on their patients — a finding backed by a 2012 survey of more than 2,000 MDs that found that physicians, as well as the general population, express a . . Whether these attitudes about weight then transfer to discrimination in providing quality of health care is unclear, researchers noted in the report on the survey, which was published in the journal . .. In an interview with Everyday Health in September, New York City's Health Commissioner . , stressed that it's not the job of doctors or public health officials to . , or play a blame game.. "We see the problem of obesity as arising from the environment in which we all live. I don’t blame individual people for that," Dr. Farley said. "We don’t see a need or a value in shaming people who are overweight. We simply think they are victims of their environments, which makes it too easy to consume calories and too hard to expend them.". Even as two-thirds of adults and one-third of children are overweight or obese, American medical students are not prepared to address weight-related issues in patients, researchers from Wake Forest University found after a literature analysis last year.. But as the new Johns Hopkins study indicates, .  could have a positive impact on patients through improved patient education. A study published in the .  found that doctors who confronted weight-related issues with patients produced healthier patient outcomes. But of the almost 8,000 overweight or obese patients interviewed for the study, only 45 percent of overweight patients and 66 percent of obese patients reported weight-related counseling from a doctor, so researchers concluded that more obesity training is needed for most medical professionals.