 The queen of calorie-rich cuisine has officially changed her ways — at least a little bit — and it shows.. A noticeably thinner chef Paula Deen, 65, opened up to Entertainment Tonight's Nancy O'Dell about her 30-pound weight loss since a .  three years ago. Deen went public with her diagnosis in January after she signed a spokesperson deal with diabetes drug manufacturer Novo Nordisk, prompting a veritable firestorm over the unhealthy Southern lifestyle her cooking shows promote.. Now, she told Entertainment Tonight (ET) that she's losing weight the old-fashioned way — by eating more fruits and vegetables, cutting back on unhealthy carbs and fried foods, and moving more — while still occasionally enjoying a few of . .. "Small changes can add up to big results," she told O'Dell. "I'm redoing the way my plate looks. I'm doubling up on the salad or a vegetable and putting smaller portions of the carbs and all that. I try to walk 30 minutes a day.". Since her diagnosis, she says she's been encouraging her fans to eat the Southern food that made her famous in moderation, and now it seems she's taking her own advice.. "It is tough, let's be honest!" she admitted to ET. "Once in a while you can eat two biscuits — you just can't do it every day three times a day.". Even before she opened up about her diabetes diagnosis, Deen was frequently criticized by other chefs (particularly the outspoken . ) for her cooking and what Bourdain sees as her contribution to America's obesity epidemic.. Back in September, he called her "the most dangerous woman in America" thanks to the recipes she regular deep-fries on her popular shows. After she announced her new deal with Novo Nordisk, Bourdain tweeted, "Thinking of getting into the leg-breaking business so I can profitably sell crutches later.". His comments may seen harsh, but they weren't isolated. Some Everyday Health commenters had a similarly strong reaction.. "Paula Deen is disgusting. Honestly, if you're diabetic you can't eat even a small amount of her recipes," . . "I am totally turned off by Paula Deen becoming a diabetic spokesperson. With her cooking habits, how is she going to become a good spokes person?" wrote another.. Still, hundreds of people came out in support of Deen, her battle with type 2 diabetes, and her message. "I love Paula, and just like her, I too was diagnosed with diabetes three years ago. But it's like she said, all in moderation," one reader wrote.. As for Deen, she's putting the negativity behind her and focusing on her health, telling ET that she's managing the disease well and keeping her . .. "I really am trying," she says. "If I'm going to help others, I've got to try to do right myself.". .