This is how Kimberly Montgomery, 52, a clinical psychologist from Indianapolis, describes the experience of meditation:. Picture yourself in a room in a huge castle. You find the door that allows you to walk out of the castle, and you do so. As you cross to the other side of the moat and keep walking, the massive castle dwindles in size behind you, and you can now see the forest around it, and then a distant village.. Your “castle” could be a rut or something oppressive you're trapped in, and the meditation gives you a sense of space, says Montgomery.. Like Montgomery, a growing number of Americans are seeking the benefits of this popular form of . . In 2007, a national survey found that nearly 10 percent of adults — more than 20 million people — had meditated in the previous year. That number had grown by nearly 24 percent since 2002.. During meditation, people typically rest in a quiet location and focus their mind on a particular thought or activity. There are two common forms of meditation: transcendental meditation and mindfulness meditation.. In transcendental meditation, or TM, the practitioner sits in a comfortable position and silently repeats a sound, or mantra. Eventually, the individual reaches a state in which the mind is free of thoughts, and is silent, peaceful, but conscious.. Types of mindfulness meditation include:. According to the National Institutes of Health, people use meditation for emotional health, such as to address .  and stress, as well as for physical problems, including controlling pain and symptoms of chronic diseases. Research has found, for example, that meditation may:. A few years ago, Montgomery had stopped meditating. But when her employer offered a discount on a meditation course, she decided it was time to go back. “I just knew that my life felt more stressful, and I looked back on my life at the times that I'd felt the best and I thought, 'I've got to get back to that.'". She sometimes wakes up early in the morning to do 45 minutes of meditation before her family gets up. She's noticed emotional and physical benefits from the meditation related to her chronic back condition.. "I do feel that it helps some of the inflammation in my back," she says. "I have frustration about my back problems — it's hard to accept things that you can't do. I'd say meditation has helped me to accept my limits on what I can do, but be committed to having the best life I can with what I have instead of trying to change it."