Stepping on the scale for your regular weigh-in can be nerve-racking, thrilling, or motivating, depending on the outcome. Hardly anyone feels neutral about the numbers on the scale. Yet keeping a balanced perspective about the role of your scale in .  is key to your ultimate success.. Data suggest that people who weigh themselves regularly do better with their weight-loss plan. A national survey of 4,345 adults found that those who weighed themselves daily were more likely to be successful with their weight-loss programs than those who were inconsistent.. Opinions vary about how often should you weigh yourself. “I don’t recommend it more than once a week,” says Liz Weinandy, RD, MPH, a dietitian for the non-surgical weight loss program at Ohio State University Medical Center in Columbus.. However, some people, especially those who are motivated by the results of their weigh-ins, can weigh in more often. Says Weinandy, “If you look at the scale and see you’ve gained weight and it motivates you to exercise a bit more, that’s fine,” she says.. Consistency is the rule of thumb for weighing in. Try to step on the scale:. “Many people prefer first thing in the morning, without any clothes,” Weindandy says.. Make sure to .  your results so you can track your progress. Use a chart that shows several weeks at a time. This will help you identify any weight cycles that you may have. For example, many women find their weight goes up slightly as they retain fluid when their period is approaching.. While it is important to know how your weight loss is progressing, you should use this tool in moderation, says Weinandy.. “What happens is a lot of people tend to get fixated on the scale,” she says. She recalls one patient whose clothes were fitting better and had a regular .  program that she enjoyed, but she was so focused on the numbers on the .  that she couldn’t acknowledge those achievements.. “Your scale can definitely be a source of undeserved disappointment or euphoria,” says Weinandy. “If you are slightly dehydrated, for example, you will weigh less, but gain it back when you get hydrated again.”. One study examined the possible relationship between depression, being overweight, and an unhealthy concern with the bathroom scale — and found there wasn’t any. This study involving 4,660 dieting women showed that all women who weighed themselves regularly lost weight, regardless of whether they were depressed, and that depressed women were no more likely, or less likely, than their peers to use the scale.. When you go shopping for a scale you will find there are many varieties to choose from. Weinandy says that you can get a good scale for about $30 — just make sure you can read the numbers easily. If you or someone in your house is very heavy, be sure the scale can accommodate that weight.. As you’re comparing the choices, remember that this is a piece of equipment with which you will have a long-term relationship. When tracking your weight, it is important to use the same scale every time, so be sure to select a model you are comfortable with.