 After a day of deliberations, an FDA advisory committee concluded that the agency should approve canagliflozin (Invokana), a novel agent for type 2 diabetes.. The margin was significant with 10 committee members voting to approve the drug versus five nays.. The drug, which belongs to class of drugs called SGLT2 inhibitors, has spurred the interest of many in the diabetes treatment field because it has a novel mechanism of action — it does not involve insulin activity in any way. Instead, SGLT2 prevents blood glucose from being reabsorbed by the kidney, causing it to be excreted in urine instead.. If approved, canagliflozin would be the first SGLT2 inhibitor to come to market. Another SGLT2 inhibitor, dapagliflozin, was .  last year largely due to concerns about . , which were not seen with canagliflozin.. Most panelists, whether they voted yes or no on the approval recommendation, said the efficacy data were convincing.. In nine phase II and III trials both the 300-mg and 100-mg doses of the SGLT2 inhibitor significantly reduced HbA1c compared with placebo, and proved non-inferior to glimepiride (Amaryl) and sitagliptin (Januvia).. But the drug's safety profile was less clear due to .  about the drug's effects on LDL cholesterol, early cardiovascular events, and stroke as well as concerns about use of the drug in patients with moderate renal impairment, a common comorbidity of diabetes.. "My Yes vote reflects the fact that I have great faith in my FDA colleagues," said panelist Julia Lewis, MD, of Vanderbilt University. "I would expect the labeling would reflect our concerns about using this agent in the low eGFR group and I think ... [the .  will be completed with sufficient events in the right amount of time.". Panelists casting a No vote generally cited concerns about the need to complete a cardiovascular outcomes study before the drug hit the market.. They also cautioned that patients with moderate renal impairment shouldn't be able to get on the drug.. "Use in renal disease is not appropriate," said Peter Savage, MD, of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK). "I didn't feel comfortable that this wouldn't damage the kidneys in the long term.". Cardiovascular safety has become a major issue for diabetes drugs since studies revealed an increased risk for heart failure with both pioglitazone (Actos) and . .. Panelists were ask to cast a separate vote on whether there was enough evidence that the drug's overall cardiovascular risk profile wouldn't exceed a hazard ratio of 1.8 — a standard now required for diabetes drugs.. That vote was a dead heat: 8 to 7, although more panel members cast votes indicating their belief that cardiovascular data presented thus far wouldn't exceed the ratio.. "I'm quite satisfied with the data we've seen that the drug is safe in terms of cardiovascular events," said William Knowler, MD, PhD, MPH, also of NIDDK, who voted in favor. "But I cannot have all my concerns allayed by data that only go for a year. To be perfectly satisfied, we need to see longer-term data, specifically in view of lipid risk factors.". Again, regardless of their vote on the cardiovascular safety question, the panelists all said their cardiovascular concerns arose from the future impact of increases in LDL cholesterol as well as lingering questions about stroke risk.. Many attributed the drug's increased proportion of early major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) at 30 days to chance, cautioning that it should not be overlooked in further trials.. Earlier in the day, panelists deliberated over increased risks of electrolyte imbalances and decreased bone turnover, though these factors made few appearances in panelists' rationale for how they voted on approval of the agent.. Some concerns were also raised about an increased risk of genitourinary infections and the fact that the most likely agent used to treat these problems would be fluconazole (Diflucan) — which may have interactions with the new agent or other medications that patients would be taking, panelists said.. Source: 