Each of us makes about 200 decisions about food a day, but we're only fully conscious of about 10 percent of these choices. The other 90 percent are instinctual, driven by our surroundings, habits, and even our dining companions. This suggests that simply by tweaking our eating environment, we can make healthy choices our default option and introduce meaningful improvements to our diet without major effort.. That's the theory behind the .  developed by Brian Wansink, a consumer psychologist at Cornell University who studies the many factors that influence our food choices. Wansink is well-known for his lab's fascinating research, which explores the ways that seemingly trivial details, like the color and size of our plates, lighting in a restaurant, or setup of a buffet line, significantly impact what, when, and how much we eat, without us even realizing it. His research group has conducted countless studies showing that simply changing the positioning, labeling, or presentation of healthy foods in restaurants, cafeterias, and home kitchens makes them more appealing to people, even those who don't pay much attention to nutrition. For example, Wansink's lab found that .  when the fruit was moved from a dim shelf on the serving line to a nice bowl in a brightly lit area. With his CAN theory, Wansink proposes that by making healthy foods "visible and easy to reach (Convenient), enticingly displayed (Attractive), and appear like an obvious choice (Normal)," we can nudge people to eat a better diet automatically, without relying only on willpower or nutrition know-how.. While many of the changes Wansink suggests target public places, like school lunchrooms, restaurants, dining halls, and supermarkets, you can also put these principles to work in your own kitchen. The tips below can help you make vegetables, fruits, and healthy, home-cooked meals the more obvious choice at home, so your family can autopilot their way to a better diet.. Have other suggestions that have helped turn your kitchen into a healthier eating zone? Post them below in the comments!. Image credit: Duane Osborn/Corbis