 What is your healthy eating motto?. "Eat to live, don't live to eat!". The more you know, the more you can eat! Learn about good nutrition to choose the best foods.. "Eat everything that's fresh; enjoy small treats which provide satisfaction; don't obsess over food.". If it is not in the house, you will not eat it! When I buy cookies or chips for my 6-year-old son, I buy the types I do not like. I do not tempt myself. I may be a dietitian, but I am human, and I am tempted just like everyone else. If I had brownies or Doritos or Oreos in the pantry, I would eat them, especially when I am relaxing at 8 p.m., watching my favorite TV shows. That is a vulnerable time for me, as well as for most people. But I think of the health consequences and that I feel better when I am in shape, so I do not buy them at all.. Be a Qualitarian. It allows you to choose from all of the foods that exist in nature. It means that you will give your body what it naturally recognizes as being best for it so that it functions most efficiently and as a result, you get your best energy, skin, weight, etc.. "Make a choice." Whether you’re eating chocolate cake, salad, pizza, or quinoa, think about what you’re going to eat, make a choice, eat it, and don’t feel guilty afterward. If you’re unsatisfied with your decision, consider why, and then decide how you’re going to make a different choice in the future.. All foods can fit! I encourage my clients to follow my "80-20" philosophy in that 80 percent of our foods should be nutrient-rich while 20 percent of them can be less nutrient-rich. Depriving ourselves usually increases the risk of disordered eating and yo-yo dieting.. Frontload your calories, so you do not get too hungry!. Getting too hungry creates food problems. When people get too hungry, they not only eat, but also overeat - and tend to choose the "wrong" foods. That is, they don't choose apples, but apple pie. They seek carrot cake rather than carrots.. I don't know if this is more of a tip or motto: "The fewer the legs the better," when thinking of protein. So think beans, especially soybeans, tofu, then fish, then poultry and finally the four-legged sources.. Only keep nutritious foods in the home and at the office. If you feel like chips, cookies, candy, you will have to go out and buy it. If you do decide to buy high-calorie, low-nutrient foods, buy for one snack only, not for the week.. Eat simple, eat fresh, eat at home.. All foods in moderation (except for vegetables - no limit on those!) The base of your diet should be healthy - vegetables and fruits, lean proteins, whole grains, low- or nonfat dairy, and healthy fats. However, other foods such as sweets, alcohol, and even fried food (on occasion!) can fit into a healthy eating plan. I often see people who are trying to eat healthy become overly fanatical with regard to limiting certain foods (i.e., strictly limiting all carbs or fat). What usually ends up happening is that they can't sustain this way of eating and end up going back to old behaviors. I encourage people to take a more moderate approach. Think of this as a way of eating for life &mdash not for the short term.. Healthy eating has a longstanding bad reputation - and it needs to change! Most of my clients realize very quickly that eating healthfully really can and does taste (and make you feel) great. Each of us needs to re-explore foods, tastes, textures, and flavors to discover what we really enjoy.. Fuel and nourish your body evenly throughout the day with lean protein, fruits, and vegetables, healthy fats, and high-fiber carbohydrate choices. Start eating when you feel hungry, not "starving" and stop when you feel satisfied, not "stuffed." All foods can be incorporated into a healthy diet in moderation.. Healthy eating can and should taste delicious!. The only food I don't eat is highly processed food.. Fullness = water + good fats + protein + fiber. Fiber is often neglected in this equation. Fullness does not hinge on protein alone!. "Getting kids to eat right can be a lot of fun!" I say this because I have spent time with thousands of schoolchildren over the years, and they will eat all kinds of things if they get involved in food preparation. They also love to visit farms, farmer's markets, ethnic grocery stores, and grow foods in a home or school garden.. Eat lots of whole foods like fresh fruits, vegetables, low-fat dairy, whole grains, and lean protein.. There is no medicine more powerful or supplement more effective in promoting health and longevity than the combination of good nutrition with daily exercise.. My tagline is "Helping you reach your nutrition goals, one bite at a time," and that'd be my healthy eating motto too. We don't need diet overhauls but rather simple healthy eating tweaks that we can live with.. Healthy eating isn't "perfect" eating. No one can eat perfectly 100 percent of the time without getting burnt out. Aim to eat mostly healthful foods such as whole vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and lean proteins 90 percent of the time, allowing yourself to treat yourself with possibly less healthy foods you crave 10 percent of the time.. Eat right and still have fun. Healthy eating does not have to be boring and leave your taste buds out in the cold. If you don't enjoy your diet, you will not stick to it, no matter how beneficial it may be for your health.. Eating clean, real foods that are close to nature is the best way to fuel your body. I tell my clients to eat clean 90 percent of the time. Eating clean means avoiding foods with artificial ingredients. Choosing foods that are easy to pronounce. You should not feel like you are taking a chemistry exam when you read the ingredient labels on your food.