Julieanna Hever, M.S., R.D., C.P.T (. ) and Dreena Burton (. ).  . #HealthTalk.  .  . Monday February 11, 2013 at 2:00pm EST.  . : Thinking about going vegan, but not sure where to start? Vegan experts Julieanna Hever and Dreena Burton joined us for a Twitter chat on Monday, February 11 at 2 pm EST, to provide tips on how to make the change to veganism in a healthy way. Discover which foods you should be eating every day, the truth behind vegan replacement meats, and whether a vegan diet is healthy for children..  Dreena Burton has been a vegan for more than 15 years, in that time writing four cookbooks charting her journey as a plant-powered cook and at-home mother of three. Always passionate about creating nutritious recipes, she is an advocate of using the "vegan basics" (beans, nuts, seeds, whole-grains, fruits and vegetables) to create dishes that are healthy — but also very satisfying and delicious! For more on her plant-powered recipes and newest cookbook, . , visit . . You can also join her .  and follow her on (Twitter..  . , also known as . , is a passionate advocate of the miracles associated with following a whole food, plant-based diet-the established effects of which provide positive healthful benefits. Julieanna is the author of the best-selling book, . , and the nutrition columnist for .  magazine. She is the co-author of the brand new book, . , which she wrote with Chef Beverly Lynn Bennett. Julieanna counsels a variety of clients throughout the world from her Los Angeles, California-based private practice including elite athletes, adults, and children with various nutritional and/or medical concerns. Julieanna was recently featured on . , . , and . , co-stars on . , on numerous radio shows, and has lectured extensively throughout the United States. She is published in prominent journals, magazines, blogs, and newsletters. As co-producer and star of the “infotainment” documentary . , Julieanna interviewed a host of the plant-based world’s most respected doctors and researchers to bring this important information to film and television audiences. Julieanna is also a Special Consultant for the best-selling documentary, . . Her work as the Executive Director of . , has also provided an opportunity for Julieanna to bring whole food, plant-based nutrition to the forefront of efforts to improve the current global health crisis.