 — Research has shown that exercise may . , but according to a new study, published in the journal . , race may play a role in how much that risk is reduced.. Researchers from the Durham, N.C., Veterans Affairs Medical Center found that while exercise reduced prostate cancer risk in white men, it did not have the same effect in black men.. “We’ve known for a long time that African Americans are associated with a higher risk for prostate cancer and for prostate cancer death,” says Lionel L. Bañez, MD, study author and investigator with the . . “There’s a growing body of evidence in recent literature which points to exercise as having a beneficial relationship in that exercise may be associated with reduced risk. Whether the relationship between exercise and cancer risk is affected by race had not been discussed.”. Over the course of four years, researchers looked at 143 black men and 164 white men undergoing prostate biopsies and asked them to rate their exercise levels every week. White men who rated themselves as either moderately or highly active were 53 percent less likely to show signs of prostate cancer in their biopsies than those who did not exercise or who were only mildly active. However, the same risk reduction did not hold for black men who exercised at any level.. Dr. Bañez thinks the reason exercise worked to reduce prostate cancer risk for the white men, but not the black men, probably comes down to genes. “We hypothesize that there are race-specific genetic differences, and that may play a role in the relationship between exercise and cancer risk,” he says.. But Timothy Gilligan M.D., a medical oncologist with the . , says he is skeptical of the findings.. “It’s not clear yet if [the findings are] really true or not. It’s provocative,” says Dr. Gilligan. “Blacks and whites are not genetically distinguishable. Race distinctions are more a social construct than a biological construct.”. Bañez thinks more work needs to be done to better understand the results, but that if they hold true in a larger study, it could lead to better .  for everyone.. “The underlying mechanisms that explain why there is a race-specific disparity should be uncovered,” he says, “so it can be turned into an effective way to reduce cancer risk for men across all backgrounds.”. Gilligan isn’t confident the results would pan out in a larger study.. “When you look at the science of being a human being, the color of your skin is not a very important factor,” he says. “What genes you carry doesn’t correlate to the color of your skin. We’re all not that different."