Your physician has the results of your blood tests, and the news is not good. You have type 2 diabetes. Like the millions of other Americans with the same diagnosis, you need to make lifestyle changes to manage your condition — and you need to start today.. Right now, you probably feel isolated and overwhelmed, but you are far from alone with your diagnosis. The number of people with .  is on the rise not just in the United States, but also all over the world. Experts estimate that one in three Americans living today will eventually develop type 2 diabetes, and that the number of cases will increase in this country by 165 percent by 2050. Researchers all over the world are working on finding the best treatments to fight the epidemic as well as the best practices for managing it day-to-day.. You developed type 2 diabetes either because your body doesn’t produce enough insulin on its own or because your cells ignore the insulin you do produce. Either way, you’ve ended up with too much blood glucose (sugar) in your blood. Treating your diabetes means bringing your blood-glucose levels back into balance so you can live a full, energetic, and normal life.. Blood sugar is a substance that your body manufactures from the food you consume. It travels to your cells, where it provides nourishment and energy. A hormone called insulin, secreted in the pancreas, controls the glucose levels in your blood. Insulin also signals your liver to metabolize — or process — glucose.. Over time, untreated diabetes can lead to a variety of . , including eye, kidney, heart, and circulatory problems. Recent studies also suggest that . . With these possible complications on the table, it’s no wonder a .  feels scary. But a wide range of help and support is available. It’s up to you to take the first step toward taking control.. As you come to terms with your diabetes, monitoring your blood-sugar levels will become second nature. Keeping track can feel like a hassle, especially at first. But when blood-sugar levels remain in a normal range, you feel better — and serious complications are less likely to develop.. Your tool kit for managing your diabetes will include some or all of these:. Understanding your condition and creating a plan to introduce lifestyle changes will help you feel more in control. Start assembling your tool kit today.