Amlexanox, a drug prescribed to treat asthma in Japan and canker sores in the United States, may have the ability to reverse diabetes, fatty liver disease, and obesity, according to researchers at the University of Michigan Life Sciences Institute in Ann Arbor, Michigan.. In 2009, researchers at the Life Sciences Institute and others discovered that the genes IKKE and TBK1 may help maintain energy balance in obese mice. Based on that research, . , the researchers concluded that medications targeting those genes could have the potential to treat conditions such as obesity, diabetes, and insulin resistance.. When the same researchers, including Alan Saltiel, PhD searched for compounds to target IKKE and TBK1, they found that amlexanox, an off-patent drug, helped both mice with genetically- and diet-induced obesity lose weight. But amlexanox did more than help the mice drop weight — it also was found to reverse diabetes and fatty liver disease. The findings are scheduled to be online Feb. 10 in the . "Amlexanox appears to work in mice by inhibiting two genes — IKKE and TBK1 — that we think together act as a sort of brake on metabolism," Saltiel said in a press release. "By releasing the brake, amlexanox seems to free the metabolic system to burn more, and possibly store less, energy.". "One of the reasons that diets are so ineffective in producing weight loss for some people is that their bodies adjust to the reduced calories by also reducing their metabolism, so that they are 'defending' their body weight," said Saltiel in the release. "Amlexanox seems to tweak the metabolic response to excessive calorie storage in mice," he added.. This study is the latest to support the notion that . . Other studies have found ties with .  and the . Saltiel plans to work with clinical trial specialists from the University of Michigan to investigate whether amlexanox may help humans with obesity and diabetes. He also plans to collaborate with medicinal chemists at the university to develop a formula that takes the most advantage of this chemical.. Amlexanox isn’t the only older medication that shows promise in treating conditions other than the ones for which it was originally approved. These drugs have been proven to help with with multiple conditions.