 Pope Benedict XVI announced Monday that he will step aside as the leader of the world's 1.2 billion Roman Catholics, citing his age and declining health. The pope is the first to resign since 1415.. His resignation has shocked the world's Catholics, particularly because he has not announced that he has any sort of health condition, apart from advanced age.. "After having repeatedly examined my conscience before God, I have come to the certainty that my strengths, due to an advanced age, are no longer suited to an adequate exercise of the Petrine ministry," the pontiff said in a statement. He went on to say that .  has rendered him incapable to "fulfill the ministry entrusted to me.". At age 85, it's likely that the pope is frail — once merely a catchall description of old age, now a diagnosable condition with a set of distinct criteria, according to the work of Linda P. Fried, MD, MPH, a pioneering geriatrician at Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health in New York City.. In the 1990s, Dr. Fried developed a definition of frailty in people 65 and older that calls for a diagnosis when three of the following five criteria are presented:. In 2001, Fried and her colleagues published a landmark paper in the . outlining the physical characteristics of frailty and linking these symptoms to worse overall health outcomes, including disability and death. Since the publication of this initial paper, a host of other studies have linked some or all of these symptoms to . .. Around 4 percent of men and 7 percent of women older than 65 are frail, according to  Fried's 2001 research. A person's chances of frailty rise sharply after age 85 — Pope Benedict's age — typically due to decreasing muscle mass and activity levels, underlying health conditions, and medications that can affect weight and energy levels.. People who show signs of frailty are encouraged to eat well, keep their mind active, and exercise. Both .  have been shown to improve senior health among patients exhibiting signs of frailty.. Although the pope has not offered specifics about his health, German news agency dpa quoted the pontiff's brother, Georg Ratzinger, as saying that walking has been an increasing struggle for the pope. "His age is weighing on him," Ratzinger reportedly said.. At the time of his 2005 appointment to the papacy at age 78, Pope Benedict XVI was older than any pope elected in nearly 300 years. The previous pope, Pope John Paul II, was 58 when he was elected in 1978 and was in failing health for a number of years before he died in 2005 at age 84.