 Most hospitals asked to provide a complete bundled price for a total hip replacement were unable to do so, although it was usually possible to gauge the cost by also contacting orthopedic surgeons separately, researchers said.. In a study addressing the feasibility of price shopping for hip arthroplasty, only nine of the 20 top orthopedic hospitals in .  rankings and 10 of 102 unranked hospitals gave a complete quote when researchers led by Jaime A. Rosenthal of the University of Iowa in Iowa City called, ostensibly on behalf of an older woman with no insurance but the ability to pay out of pocket.. But many other hospitals were able to provide their own charges for such a procedure, omitting only the surgeons' fees.. When Rosenthal and colleagues also called a randomly selected orthopedic surgery practice affiliated with this second group of hospitals, they were able to put together the complete hip-replacement cost for an additional three top-ranked hospitals and 54 of the unranked hospitals.. Still, the effort ended in failure for about 40 percent of both hospital classes, the researchers reported online in . . And, even for those for which cost information was eventually provided, it often took three or more phone calls to get it.. "We have found that despite a growing interest in price transparency, obtaining price information for a common medical procedure (total hip arthroplasty) is very difficult," Rosenthal and colleagues wrote.. "Our results demonstrate that many healthcare providers are not able to provide reasonable price quotes.". They also found enormous variation in the quoted prices — from $11,100 to more than $125,000.. In an accompanying commentary, two policy researchers argued that healthcare providers need to be more transparent about the prices they charge.. "There is no justification for the inability to report a fee estimate, or a 12-fold price variation for a common elective procedure like a hip replacement," wrote Andrew Steinmetz, BA, and Ezekiel Emanuel, MD, PhD, both of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.. They likened the current healthcare system to that of the retail car industry in the 1950s, when "exorbitant shipping charges and phony 'preparation fees' were frequently tacked on without the buyer's knowledge" and the final price would vary tremendously from one dealer to another for the identical vehicle.. Steinmetz and Emanuel noted that, eventually, federal laws were passed to force dealers to disclose full pricing information, and other information sources also became available to arm buyers prior to purchase.. "Healthcare will need to travel down a similar path," they wrote.. In the study, Rosenthal and colleagues contacted two hospitals performing total hip replacements in each state plus the District of Columbia — 102 in all — plus the 20 top-ranked orthopedic hospitals in the 2011-2012 .  listings.. The investigators used a standard script when contacting the hospitals. The caller (Rosenthal in all cases) said she was helping her grandmother do a price comparison in anticipation of an upcoming elective hip arthroplasty. The script included other elements including the specific ICD-9 and CPT codes, likely length of stay, and the need for post-discharge care.. Rosenthal made up to five calls to each hospital in pursuit of the price information, and to surgical practices affiliated with hospitals responding that they could not estimate physician fees.. As noted, nine of the top-ranked and 10 of the unranked hospitals provided a complete quote for the entire procedure, including hospital and physician charges. Three of the ranked hospitals and 16 of the unranked did not provide any price information, Rosenthal and colleagues reported. The remainder gave partial information.. "Common reasons that hospital representatives gave for not being able to provide a price included that the patient has to see a physician before they could provide a price, that they do not provide price estimates over the telephone, and that they had no way to provide such an estimate," the researchers indicated.. No hospital factors they examined — teaching status, for-profit versus nonprofit, geographic region, or Medicaid caseload — were significantly predictive of the ability to quote a price.. Of the hospitals that did give at least some pricing, about half of the top-ranked facilities and two-thirds of the unranked hospitals did so with one or two phone calls.. The mean price at top-ranked hospitals for which full information was found was $53,140; at the unranked hospitals, it was slightly lower at $41,666.. Rosenthal and colleagues concluded that, despite the difficulty real consumers would likely face in price-shopping for elective procedures, the wide variation in hip arthroplasty pricing revealed in the study suggests that it could be worthwhile.. "Comparison shopping might yield significant price savings for savvy consumers," they wrote.. They also noted some limitations to the study: it examined a small sample of hospitals, hospitals may have interpreted the patient's probable needs differently, and its restriction to a single type of procedure.. Source: 