For years, Brandy McEllrath didn't think she was at much risk of developing .  because no one on her mother's side of the family had ever been touched by the disease. But last year, during a visit with her new gynecologist, the 40-year-old mentioned that breast cancer has figured prominently in her father's side of the family, and both her aunt and grandmother had grappled with the disease. At her doctor's urging, McEllrath went for a blood test that detects mutations of the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, which put a woman at especially high risk for developing breast cancer.. McEllrath tested positive for mutations in both genes. "I was a little bit shocked because I was in denial it could happen to me. I was swimming with the ideas and emotions of what I should do now. In a split second, my life completely changed," says McEllrath who lives in Vancouver, Wash., and is the mother of two teenage girls. "But if it weren't for the test, I would have felt like a victim.". McEllrath, who decided to have a .  and is preparing to also have her ovaries removed as a result of the test findings, is one example of a woman whose decisions were greatly impacted by having the BRCA test. And a new study, which was conducted by . , a home genetics testing company, reports patients are open to using the test to gauge their breast cancer risk and make crucial decisions about their health.. To learn more about the range of reactions patients have upon learning they are BRCA-positive, Uta Francke, MD, from the department of pediatrics and genetics at Stanford University in Palo Alto and her team, interviewed subjects who had learned of their BRCA status through a home genetic test purchased through 23andMe.. They invited 136 people who had tested positive for the mutation and 160 who had tested negative to take a survey about their personal experience learning the results of the test. Among the respondents, 32 customers — 16 men and 16 women — with the mutation, as well as 31 without it, agreed to participate in a phone interview. Five women and two of the men had already known they were BRCA-positive from prior tests and the 23andMe test confirmed those results.. Researchers, who published their study in the debut issue of. , an open access journal, asked questions about family health history, the participants' emotional response upon learning the results, perceived risk for developing cancer, whether they shared the test results with family and friends, if they consulted a doctor regarding the test results, and if they had taken medical action such as having a mastectomy or seeking additional testing.. Among the group of BRCA-positive subjects, 11 women and 14 men said the test results were new information and caught them by surprise. None of the subjects said they had an extremely negative reaction or felt especially anxious about the results, while five women and six men reported their reaction was neutral. The majority of the BRCA-positive women sought medical advice, and four of them opted for preventive surgery.. Five to 10 percent of breast cancers are believed to be hereditary. Women with mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 are at higher risk — they are 60 to 80 percent more susceptible to developing breast cancer by the age of 70 than women who don't have the mutations, whose risk is around 8 percent. Women with the gene mutation also have a 10 to 70 percent chance of developing ovarian cancer, according to the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation. A woman who knows she is at risk for breast cancer can start annual screenings at an earlier age, have MRIs in addition to . , or opt to have a preventive mastectomy or . , vastly reducing her risk for developing the disease.. The 23andMe home genetic test. —. available online for $99 —. can provide a person with information about 247 genetic health traits that include likely drug responses, disease risk, and carrier statuses, says the company. Once the kit arrives in the mail, the individual sends back a saliva sample. A few weeks later, the customer can log onto 23andMe's website for information such as their likelihood for developing Alzheimer's disease, asthma, gallstones, developmental dyslexia, Canavan disease; their reactions to drugs such as beta-blocker and metformin, response to exercise, and whether they have the BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutation. Customers who purchase the test have the option to only look at certain results, meaning they can opt out of seeing the BRCA test results if they so choose.. Prior studies on BRCA tests have only focused on hypothetical responses to positive results, says Francke, who began her research for the paper a year ago. "We were surprised there weren't more negative responses," she says, adding that typically 23andMe conducts their studies by using customer data that's already available from selling the product. This is the first study in which the company approached customers to conduct interviews.. "No one said they were extremely upset or thought about ending their life," says Francke. However, some of the subjects reported the test had prompted them to make life decisions, such as arranging to have prophylactic surgery after having children. "So this was something worked into their planning their life," says Francke. She says she was most surprised by how the test results influenced other family members to be tested, what she calls a "cascade effect.". But Joanne Mortimer, MD, vice chair and professor of the Department of Medical Oncology & Therapeutics Research at City of Hope. a cancer research hospital in Duarte, Calif., says this study doesn't offer the full picture of the emotional impact the BRCA test can have on patients. It's important, she says, to assess the emotional impact of the .  that must happen after the patient gets results when they are faced with making difficult choices such as whether to have elective surgery or simply to closely monitor their health. " When you first get the information you’re not sure what you’re going to do with it," Mortimer says. "Being upset with the test results is only a small part of what this test is about.". For McEllrath, after counseling, the choice was easy. It turned out the test also saved her life: her doctors detected cancer when she underwent an ultrasound prior to her mastectomy. Both of McEllrath's sisters have also since chosen to have elective mastectomies. McEllrath says knowing the test is available has also empowered her two teenage daughters to get tested for the gene, though neither of them have undergone it yet. "They both know they have this tool they can use," she says.