 To all the non-married, live-in couples out there: Finally, there’s scientific research to prove that your romantic relationship isn’t doomed (take . , grandma, nosy neighbor, and judgmental married friends).. Yep, a new study published in the .  has found that the physical and .  enjoyed by married couples do not outweigh those shared by un-betrothed twosomes who live together, according to . .. The study, orchestrated by Cornell University's College of Human Ecology, chose 2,737 single men and women from the National Survey of Families and Households to follow for six years. During that time, 896 of those folks either married or moved in with their partners. Compared to those who stayed single, both the participants who got hitched .  the cohabitating participants experienced a spike in well-being (based on questions about their happiness, .  levels, social ties, and health overall). However, the wellness boosts tended to level off after a “honeymoon period” for both groups.. Though previous (and highly cited) research has showed a higher .  rate among couples who live together before they tie the knot compared to those who do not, these decades-old findings may be outdated. Other research has touted the health benefits of marriage, but those studies often compared married people and . , leaving cohabitating couples out of the mix.. "We found that differences between marriage and cohabitation tend to be small and dissipate after a honeymoon period,” head researcher Kelly Musick, PhD, said in a press release. “Also while married couples experienced health gains — likely linked to the formal benefits of marriage such as shared healthcare plans — cohabiting couples experienced greater gains in happiness and self-esteem.”. Why would that be? “For some, cohabitation may come with fewer unwanted obligations than marriage and allow for more flexibility, autonomy, and personal growth," Dr. Musick pointed out.. The results of this study couldn’t have come at a better time — at least not for couples in the United Kingdom.. According to new statistics from the UK’s Office for National Statistics, the number of cohabitating duos has increased dramatically in recent years — rising to 2.9 million in 2011 from 2.1 million in 2001. What’s more, many of these romantic roommates are reproducing. In 2011, there were 1.8 million kids living in cohabitating couple families (up from 1.3 million in 2001). These figures compare to the UK’s 7.6 million married couples without kids and 4.5 million married couples with kids.