 A tenth patient has now been diagnosed with a .  in September, this time in Britain, . The newest case brings the total number confirmed globally to 10, with five deaths, . The patient had a history of travel to Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, health officials note. The patient is a resident of the United Kingdom and is receiving intensive care treatment in a hospital in Manchester.. The patient developed symptoms of illness on January 26. WHO says the patient tested positive for both the novel coronavirus that is similar to SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and for H1N1, known as the swine flu.. The WHO says this is a sporadic case and does not alter the current WHO risk assessment on the novel coronavirus.. The novel coronavirus is a new strain of coronavirus not previously identified in humans. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses known to cause illness ranging from the common cold to  SARS, according to WHO.. The most .  of the virus so far have been fever, cough, shortness of breath, and difficulty breathing. The infection generally presents as pneumonia, and causes kidney failure and death in some cases, according to WHO.. Officials don’t know if the virus can be transmitted from person to person.. Though the new virus has . , there are differences. The diseases are genetically different, and SARS didn’t cause the kidney failure that has been seen in people with the novel coronavirus. And while there are no signs the coronavirus can be transmitted from person to person, SARS was highly contagious.. The original SARS outbreak in 2003 infected around 8,000 people in more than 30 countries, killing around 800 people. It was transmitted to humans from cats in China.. Britain’s Health Protection Agency (HPA) said in a press release that the 10 confirmed cases of the coronavirus break down this way:. According to the press release, the head of the respiratory diseases department at HPA says since the first case of novel coronavirus was found in the UK in September, the HPA has “maintained increased vigilance for illness caused by the virus.” They say they’ve also produced updated guidance for health professionals in the UK on the investigation and management of possible cases.. However, the HPA says the risk to the general population in the UK and around the globe is low.. “Our assessment is that the risk associated with novel coronavirus to the general UK population remains extremely low and the risk to travelers to the Arabian Peninsula and surrounding countries remains very low,” according to an HPA press release.  “No travel restrictions are in place but people who develop severe respiratory symptoms, such as shortness of breath, within ten days of returning from these countries should seek medical advice and mention which countries they have visited.”