If you’re coping with .  and feel wiped out all the time — the kind of fatigue that isn’t helped by eating or getting a little extra sleep — your doctor might tell you that your blood sugar levels are to blame. But research suggests that the fatigue associated with diabetes could have other causes. In . , researchers .  and . , found that stress, depression, body mass index (BMI), and lack of physical activity can all be significant contributors to fatigue in people with diabetes.. In the study, 83 women ages 40 to 65 with type 2 diabetes completed questionnaires about their health, fatigue levels, . , depression, emotional distress, physical activity, and how they were managing and coping with diabetes. Some of the women wore a continuous glucose monitor for three days to assess the changes in their glucose (blood sugar) levels.. The researchers found no relationship between the women’s fatigue level and their blood sugar control. . , glucose fluctuations over the study period, and results from the A1C test, which measures average blood sugar level over the previous two to three months, did not predict how tired the women reported feeling. “It appears that other factors — such as being overweight, getting little physical activity, and having higher levels of distress — could be causing their fatigue,” Fritschi says.. A statement published by .  in .  recommends that physical activity be prescribed to all people living with diabetes in order to manage glycemic control and overall health. In particular, the ADA urges people living with diabetes to interrupt long periods of sitting with light activity by doing 3 minutes of light exercise (like stretches or walking) every 30 minutes.. But diabetes and fatigue can set up a catch-22, Fritschi says. “One of the . , yet people with diabetes can be too tired to exercise," she says. If you’re also depressed, you’re even less likely to have the energy to take other steps needed to manage the condition, such as preparing healthy meals and monitoring your blood sugar.. Take a proactive approach to dealing with fatigue by addressing your symptoms and concerns with your health care providers and support team. Following these steps can help: