 Prostate cancer is typically treated with hormone therapy over a period of 36 months, but according to preliminary new research, treating patients for half the time works just as well. Researchers at Sherbrooke University Hospital Center in Quebec found that .  for 18 months live just as long as those treated longer — a finding that could revolutionize prostate cancer treatment.. Their research, which they will present at the . , in Orlando, Fla., on Thursday, has not yet been peer-reviewed, so it comes with some caveats.. Hormone therapy for .  acts similarly to castration, as it stops the body from producing the tumor-feeding hormone testosterone. However, the treatment comes with a host of . , which means shortening treatment time could save men months of misery.. “Shorter-term hormone therapy could have a big impact on the lives of men with prostate cancer, reducing the quantity and intensity of its unpleasant side effects as well as treatment costs,” Abdenour Nabid, MD, study author and associate professor at Sherbrooke University Hospital Center, said in a statement. “For the benefit of the patients, we hope these results will convince doctors that they can stop hormone therapy after one and a half years instead of two to three years.”. While patients would still have to deal with unpleasant side effects during treatment, an 18-month treatment plan could shorten the ordeal and help men avoid some of the long-term side effects that come with prostate cancer treatment, says Bruce Roth MD, a medical oncologist at the Siteman Cancer Center at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis.. “What we’re concerned about are the long-term impacts of hormonal therapy – osteoporosis, diabetes and cardiovascular events,” says Dr. Roth, who was not involved in the research. “Also, the longer you’re on hormonal therapy, the less chance the testosterone will bounce back. If the patient is cured but has to go through 20 years of [testosterone] deprivation, you may be doing more harm than good.”. They looked at 630 men with localized high-risk prostate cancer and administered 18 months of treatment to 320 patients and 36 months of treatment to 310. They then followed the patients for an average of six and a half years, and found that the difference in survival rate was not statistically significant – 77 percent of the men who received 36 months of treatment were still alive, compared to 76 percent of men who received 18 months of treatment.. The death rate was similar after 10 years as well, according to the study. In addition, there was no significant difference in .  or cancer spread between the two treatment groups.. However, it’s still important to be cautious, Roth says. Because the study has not yet undergone peer review, it’s too early to change treatment protocol.. “I could imagine that [the results] could be true,” Roth says, “but you don’t want to make a new standard out of a single trial.”