It seems straightforward — but if you’ve ever made a mistake when . , you’re not alone. Studies show that plenty of men slipup with this contraceptive standby.. Condoms are a very effective (and inexpensive) form of birth control and STD prevention. But if you use a condom incorrectly, it could result in a number of problems: An unwanted pregnancy, a .  — even . . In fact, a recent survey of college-aged men found that 32 percent had experienced erectile problems because of condoms — broken condoms, condoms put on upside down, or condoms that get taken off too soon.. Your first mistake (before you even open up the package) is forgoing the “condom conversation” with your partner. Studies show that men who neglected to talk about condoms before sex often experienced .  and embarrassment — in turn, this had a negative effect on their performance.. Here are some common condom errors — and how to avoid them.. Condoms come in all different types and sizes. Condoms that are too tight can choke off blood supply, which contributes to erectile dysfunction. And if you choose a condom that’s too big, it can slip off during intercourse, which not only defeats the purpose of wearing the condom, but can also undo an erection.. Condoms also come with or without lubrication — when a condom’s not sufficiently lubricated, this could mean erectile trouble. But keep in mind: "If you are using a latex condom and you need to add lubricant, it is important to only use a water-based lubricant. An oil-based lubricant will break down the condom," warns urologist Bruce Gilbert, MD PhD, director of reproductive and sexual medicine at the North Shore LIJ Health System on Long Island, N.Y. This can make the condom sticky and, worse, unreliable.. "An important rule on timing is to make sure a condom goes on and comes off an erect penis," advises Dr. Gilbert. If you try to put your condom on before you are completely erect, it will not go on easily and you could get off to a bad start.. Leaving a condom on until your penis loses its erection is dangerous because it allows semen to leak out from the bottom.. Studies show that common condom blunders include putting the condom on upside down, unrolling the condom before trying to put it on, and not leaving space at the tip of the condom. "Not leaving space at the tip or having an air bubble at the tip can be uncomfortable and can lead to a popped condom," warns Gilbert.. Figuring out how to put your condom on in front of your partner can be embarrassing. The best advice? Read the directions and practice putting your condom on during a trial run.. "A condom stored in a wallet for months before being used may not be a reliable form of birth control. Condoms have use-by dates, so you need to pay attention," says Gilbert.. Condoms should be stored in a cool, dry place. Always check to make sure your condom is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) — and don't use a condom after its expiration date. Condoms stored in wallets or glove compartments beyond their use-by dates can come out stiff and dry. Not only will they be hard to put on and uncomfortable to use, they also won’t be safe.. "If you have irritation or swelling, or your partner has irritation or swelling, after using a latex condom, you need to check with your doctor. It could be a . ," warns Gilbert.. Latex allergy can cause a condition known as contact dermatitis, meaning the part of your body that touches latex gets swollen, red, and itchy. Going forward, be aware of the allergy and opt for condoms made from alternative materials (such as lamb intestinal lining or polyurethane).. Take the time to pick the right condom for you, considering factors such as size and lubrication. And never use sharp objects or your teeth to open your condom package.. It’s important to know how to use your condom properly (practice in private!), and to discuss condom use with your partner before you’re both in the mood.