A blue-ribbon panel is urging stronger regulation of pharmaceuticals around the world to combat the growing problem of fake and poor-quality medicines.. The quality problems and fake medicines have affected Americans. Fungal .  of steroids made by a Massachusetts pharmacy, which sickened more than 700 people and killed 46, is one recent example. Other U.S. patients have received fake cancer drugs and medicines obtained over the Internet with little or no active ingredients.. The problem extends to more than 120 countries, the . says, and has done incalculable damage to efforts to control tuberculosis, malaria, AIDS and other diseases.. No one knows exactly how big the problem is, but . , chairman of the IOM committee that issued the report, says it's been getting steadily worse. "Whatever the magnitude is, it's huge and growing," he tells Shots.. The . , of which the IOM is part, was commissioned by the .  to look at how to protect people against fake and substandard drugs.. The root cause for the problem is that there's so much money to be made. "It's actually more profitable to supply illegitimate drugs than cocaine or heroin," Gostin says. "And so you're seeing more and more sophisticated drug suppliers.". The report is replete with scandals and horror stories — some previously publicized, others obscure:. "What we're seeing in the United States — and doubly so in developing countries — is a race to the bottom," Gostin says.. The panel says Congress needs to authorize the FDA to trace the authenticity of medications from raw ingredients to manufacture and through the distribution chain all the way to retail pharmacies.. The 300-page report also calls on the FDA to work with state licensing boards to regulate and report pharmacies like the problematic Massachusetts firm and launch a national database to report violators.. On the international level, the IOM panel calls on the World Health Organization to develop a global code of practice for pharmaceuticals. Among other recommendations is that the World Bank and other agencies provide low-interest loans to medium and small pharmaceutical companies in developing countries to beef up their equipment, supply chain and quality-control systems.