Laura Yassky Glynn has always been an animal lover. At 10, she had a pony named Bourbon that she kept in a neighbor's barn in Valley Cottage, N.Y., where she spent her childhood.. "I was always animal crazy," says the 43-year old. "Some girls play dolls, I played vet's office.". As Glynn grew older, she realized owning a horse would be difficult, so she turned her affection to dogs. As an adult, she began researching dog breeds. She met a breeder who specializes in Cavalier King Charles spaniels, and her curiosity fast became an obsession, when five years ago, she took home her first spaniel.. "I'm competitive in all I do. Once I got the bug to show, that was the end of the end," she says. "I like working with the dogs and then working toward a goal. We're a team together.". The Cavalier King Charles spaniel is a handsome, medium-size breed. They are naturally mild-tempered, sweet, affectionate, and eager to please. And Glynn, who competes in professional dog shows, has three of them: Scotch, Luke, and Juno. "They're considered to be a comfort spaniel and that's what they are. They're really the perfect dog," says Glynn, who works at her family's real estate company.. On Monday, Glynn fulfilled one of her lifelong dreams. She strutted her stuff with Chadwick Scotch on the Rocks at Hudsonview (his full given name) at the legendary Westminster Dog Show in New York City — the canine version of the Miss America pageant. Scotch holds a dual championship with both the American Kennel Club and Cavalier King Charles Club. Walking the green carpet among the crowds of pups and people is an honor for both dog and handler. But for Glynn it was a triumph.. A little more than a year ago, she was diagnosed with stage IV . .. In the spring of 2011, Glynn says her life came to halt when, very suddenly, she became inexplicably ill. It started with an upper respiratory infection, which her doctor treated with antibiotics. After the infection cleared, Glynn developed a persistent backache. Her doctor insisted she had strained a muscle, but Glynn wasn't so sure. Though a blood test revealed her white cell count was unusually high, a telling sign of cancer, her doctor insisted she wasn't sick. "He sat me down and told me it was all in my head, that I'm a type A personality and an overachiever," she recalls. "He said 'Look into my eyes, don't listen to anyone else. You're fine.'". Glynn, who lives in Upper Nyack, N.Y., saw a chiropractor for some time for the back pain but even frequent visits provided little relief. She pleaded with her doctor to run more tests. He refused to send her for an MRI.. At her request, a family friend who is a doctor sent Glynn for an MRI, which detected a tumor on her spine. A week later, Glynn was diagnosed with stage IV follicular non-Hodgkins lymphoma, a type of cancer that originates in the lymphatic or immune system. "The tumor on my spine saved my life," she says. "Other than that, I didn't have any signs. I can't believe I was stage IV.". Glynn immediately began treatment at Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey. Every three weeks for six months, she went to the hospital for R-CHOP infusions, a chemotherapy regimen that's used to treat non-Hodgkins lymphoma. .  is an aggressive chemotherapy that combines the most powerful drugs on the market: rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, and prednisone. Though today Glynn's cancer is in remissions, she still goes for regular maintenance chemotherapy. A mere few days before she competed with Scotch, she was at the hospital for her routine course of Rituxan, a type of maintenance infusion chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients.. Typically, the five-year relative survival rate for patients with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma is 63 percent. The 10-year relative survival rate is 51 percent, according to the American Cancer Society. As the disease progresses to later stages, the survival rate can be significantly less. But follicular lymphoma grows slowly and responds well to chemotherapy.. Glynn was now faced with endless doctor visits and sickening, exhausting .  treatments. She relied on her friends and her boyfriend, John, for support. The couple had recently started dating at the time of her diagnosis."I immediately said to him this is probably not what you signed up for," she says. "I think what's funny is that it never occurred to me that he wasn't going to stick around.". "We were both devastated with the news," John recalls. "I had asked her father for her hand in marriage a week before her diagnosis. and was very excited at the prospect of us spending the rest of our lives together. All of that changed in an instant.". But he stayed by her side. "As I thought about our situation, I figured there could be no better time for us to refocus our energy towards the positive things in our lives that we could control." By a glowing fire in their home, he presented Glynn with her grandmother’s engagement ring, which he had obtained from her father. He knelt in front of the fire and asked her to marry him.. Throughout her treatment, Glynn's dogs provided a welcome distraction and a sense of normalcy. "They were just very attuned to my moods and whatever my level was that day. On the days when I just wanted to sleep, they'd sleep 18 hours for me. They could gauge my mood," she says. And on the days when Glynn was too tired to get out of bed, she says she just rolled over and played with her dogs.. "I have never met someone who loves her dogs like Laura does," John says. "I always joke that I want to come back as one of them. No matter what treatment we were going to or driving from, they were always there when we got home as excited as ever to see us. That is a pretty special thing when every test or treatment seemed to lead to more questions than answers.". Research scientists have long touted the therapeutic benefits of . . Animals can have an enormous impact on human physiology. They can lower a person's blood pressure and cortisol levels, which is why they've become an integral part of many cancer treatment programs. Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City, for example, has a team of 20 therapy dogs and trainers. Patients are able to schedule inpatient visits with one of the canines. The dogs, they say, help provide emotional support, reduce anxiety, and ease a patient's distress when communicating with their doctors.. Chemotherapy took its toll on both Glynn's mind and body. She gained 30 pounds. Around the holidays, her shoulder-length, blonde-highlighted hair began falling out in clumps. "The hardest part was the transformation of my body. It's that feeling of being betrayed by your body that's hard," she says. "I remember saying I just want my hair to hold on for Christmas. That part of the process is so hard, much harder than I thought it was going to be. My scalp hurt. I didn't know your scalp would hurt. You can't prepare yourself for it.". Glynn reserves the basement of her house as a place to care for and groom her dogs. One weekend, shortly before the New Year, she put on her dog grooming coat — the equivalent of a barber's shirt — grabbed a pair of dog clippers, and climbed two flights of stairs to talk to John. "I told him, 'I'm going to give myself a puppy cut,'" she recalls. "I was like 'I'm tired of waiting. He said to me, 'let me help you.'". With a few quick snips, he helped her shear her remaining hair off.  "It was very empowering," says Glynn.. But Glynn tried not to dwell too much on her treatments, because she had a big goal in mind: to prepare Scotch for the Westminster Dog Show. "It was on my bucket list. It was something I wanted to do," she says.. For Glynn and Scotch to make it to the big leagues, they needed to compete throughout the year and win regional championships.  Between draining chemotherapy treatments, she primped and prepped Scotch, and swept him off to 20 different dog shows. Because Glynn didn't want to travel by plane when she was ill, she went by car to each competition. Once, she drove with three friends and 20 dogs to a competition in Louisville, Ky. "I never stopped showing. I have a whole circle of friends I travel with. I never accepted the fact that I was sick," she says. "I think it made the wins all the sweeter.". One competition in Danbury, Conn. was especially memorable. "When he won his championship I had stubble on my head, and I remember thinking my hair was so long but it was like a five o'clock shadow," she says. "There was not a dry eye when that happened.". Today, Glynn is cancer-free.. She and Scotch didn't place in Westminster's preliminary competition, but for her and her dog, just being there was a win."Having a pet around is the way to give you something else to focus on. I don't think I would have been able to make a recovery without them," she says. "I'll be back with Scotch or another dog, That is not my last Westminster. That is for sure."