 Britain’s Health Protection Agency (HPA) confirmed a second case this week of novel coronavirus infection, this time in a family member of . .. The newest patient is a U.K. resident, and unlike the family member diagnosed earlier in the week, does not have a recent history of travel outside the country, which may suggest the virus can spread from person to person. The newly diagnosed patient is receiving intensive care at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham, England.. "Confirmed novel coronavirus infection in a person without travel history to the Middle East suggests that person-to-person transmission has occurred, and that it occurred in the U.K. This case is a family member who was in close personal contact with the earlier case and who may have been at greater risk of acquiring an infection because of their underlying health condition,” said John Watson, head of the respiratory diseases department at the HPA, in a press release.. Watson said that although this case provides strong evidence for person-to-person transmission, the threat of a widespread epidemic like the one depicted in the movie .  is not likely to happen.. “If novel coronavirus were more infectious, we would have expected to have seen a larger number of cases than we have seen since the first case was reported three months ago,” Watson said in the release.. “However, this new development does justify the measures that were immediately put into place to prevent any further spread of infection and to identify and follow up contacts of known cases," he added.. The HPA continues to say the risk to the general population in Britain and around the globe is low.. "In light of this latest case we would like to emphasize that the risk associated with novel coronavirus to the general U.K. population remains very low. The HPA will continue to work closely with national and international health authorities and will share any further advice with health professionals and the public if and when more information becomes available," Watson said in the release.. So far, this is the breakdown of known SARS-like virus cases: