 An internal study by Johnson & Johnson into failure rates of its now-recalled ASR-XL hip implant device projected that 37 percent of the implants would need to be revised in less than 5 years, court documents indicated.. The 2011 study, performed about a year after J&J's . , examined outcomes of 554 surgeries involving the metal-on-metal devices at 23 U.S. centers an average of 2.2 years after implantation (range 0 to 5.1 years).. Testimony by a DePuy statistician in a California court case, unsealed last week, indicated that the company's analysis showed that 49 revision surgeries had already been performed in these patients. On that basis, an implant survival rate of 63 percent over 4.6 years was projected, corresponding to a revision rate of 37 percent.. That figure is nearly triple the 5-year rate J&J cited in its 2010 recall announcement — 12 percent to 13 percent, based on data from the National Joint Registry of England and Wales. However, independent studies of the same registry have suggested the revision rate could approach 50 percent after 6 years.. The ASR-XL device is a hip resurfacing system, in which the femoral head is left largely intact but is capped with a rounded metal plate, articulating with a metal cup implanted into the pelvic acetabulum.. Some 93,000 of the ASR-XL systems and a similar device called the ASK Hip Resurfacing system had been implanted worldwide at the time of the recall, the company indicated.. J&J is now facing thousands of lawsuits over the devices. The California case in which the internal study was made public involved Loren Kransky, a former prison guard who initially received the ASR-XL resurfacing in 2007 and underwent revision last year.. Problems with the DePuy resurfacing products have helped fuel a larger furor over metal-on-metal hip replacements generally, including total arthroplasty devices that are much more common.. Last week, the FDA issued a proposed rule that would force all manufacturers of metal-on-metal hips to .  through the premarket approval application (PMA) process.. Even devices currently on the market based on 510(k) clearances would have to be reapproved with a PMA, the FDA said.. Although the reasons for the higher failure rates seen with some metal-on-metal devices remain uncertain, .  — particularly, chromium and cobalt used in most devices' metal alloys — are thought to play a strong role.. In the Kransky case, court documents indicated that his doctors performed the revision at least in part to cure what they believed was "poisoning" by chromium and cobalt leaching from the device.. Metal-on-metal hip systems are now estimated to account for less than 5 percent of the market, down from as much as 30 percent early in the previous decade. Highly cross-linked polyethylene and, to a lesser extent, ceramic have become the preferred materials for the articular surfaces in these devices.. However, metal-on-metal is the only technology available for resurfacing.. Source: 