Food and love share many links: You can show your love through the food you serve and by sharing meals in restaurants with someone special. And you probably love it when that special person buys you something delicious because they know it’s your favorite.. Yes, love is in the air this Valentine's Day, and we'd love for you to join us and celebrate our love of food and the way it makes us look and feel. There's so much negative buzz around about what we shouldn't eat... let's talk about what we should eat. Nourishing your body and mind can be a positive experience... if you do it the right way.. Join the conversation with food and nutrition expert Bonnie Taub-Dix, MA, RD, CDN, author of . , on Thursday, February 14, 1-2 PM ET by following #HealthTalk. Bonnie will show you how to create a plate that makes nutritious and delicious coexist!. But don’t wait until then to talk about how to love what you eat. Follow us on twitter .  and follow Bonnie . .. Bonnie Taub-Dix, MA,RD,CDN has been Owner of BTD Nutrition Consultants, LLC for more than three decades specializing in behavior and lifestyle modification and she is the author . . She a past spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition & Dietetics and will be receiving the Academy’s esteemed Media Excellence Award this coming fall. Bonnie is an advisor to national and global corporate clients, law firms, food companies, and fitness clubs, setting up wellness programs, creating media campaigns, and conducting seminars. Bonnie is a regular guest on national TV and radio shows and in the press, including CNN, CBS Early Show, ABC’s Good Morning America, Martha Stewart Living Radio, . , . , . , . , . , . , . , . , . , and . , to name a few. As a consultant to the Cartoon Network, she is a liaison between industry, media, and consumers. She is a blogger for .  “Eat+Run” column and she wrote a weekly blog for .  for almost four years. As a renowned motivational speaker, author, media personality, and award-winning dietitian, Bonnie has found a way to communicate how to make sense of science..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  