 Lady Gaga better bring her 'Poker Face.'. The singer, 26, has to have surgery for a labral tear in her right hip, she announced in a statement on her website Wednesday. The surgery and the extensive recovery she'll require is forcing Gaga (real name: Stefani Germanotta) to cancel the remainder of her Born This Way Ball Tour.. Today's announcement is not the first news of a 'Bad Romance' between Gaga and her hip. Earlier in the week, she tweeted to fans that she's been unable to walk since her performance on Feb. 11 due to months of gradually worsening pain and inflammation. In another tweet, she explained that she has synovitis (severe inflammation of joints).. The labrum is the muscle that helps hold the hip joint in place. Athletes who repetitively twist and turn their hips risk labral tears, according to Robert Gotlin, MD, the director of orthopedic and sports rehabilitation at New York's Beth Israel Medical Center and the director of the Continuum Center for Health and Healing Medical Fitness Program. Dr. Gotlin explains that diagnoses of labral tears have skyrocketed in the past decade, as MRI technology has improved to be able to recognize tears.. Dr. Gotlin says tears are more common in young people, whereas older patients with labral issues often experience a slow degeneration of the muscle over time.. "If she has no additional anatomic issues or injuries, the surgery will just shave down and repair the labrum," he says. "After the part that's damaged is sewn back together, the recovery really depends on the person's activity level and whether they have other issues with the hip.". Dr. Gotlin explains that dysplasia, arthritis, or another underlying issue could be the cause of her pain, and that could affect her surgical outcome. Typically, patients need six weeks to recover from the surgery and three months of physical therapy to strengthen the muscles around the hip. Some patients take six months or more to return to activity without pain.. The pain and inflammation associated with Gaga's injury can often be managed with . , such as ibuprofen and naproxen. Dr. Gotlin says narcotics can be effective, especially if the cause of the patient’s pain is another underlying condition instead of inflammation.. "I'm devastated and sad," Gaga wrote in a tweet. "It will hopefully heal as soon as possible, I hate this. I hate this so much. I love you and I'm sorry." Her fans have so far responded with an outpouring of support, tweeting "your health is all that matters," "be strong, Gaga, we are with you; just get well soon!" and more.