 . Folks rarely think about the implication of those five words when they utter them. The wedding cake wouldn’t taste as good if a bride or groom cataloged during the .  all the possibilities that could happen in the future and what she or he would do in that circumstance.  What happens when the “in health part” takes a major backseat to the “in sickness” vow? When the caretaker role is disproportionate to the soul mate/best friend role, resentment seeps in — and it can easily break apart the bond of married life.. I emerged from my mother’s womb depressed. So my husband knew he was marrying a person with fragile wiring. But he wasn’t prepared for the massive breakdown I experienced after the birth of our second child. After two hospital stays, seven psychiatrist, and 23 medication combinations over the period of two years, I was diagnosed with .  and made the gradual ascent to heath.. But I have felt sorry for Eric every day since I was admitted into the hospital.. I am painfully aware of the trickle effect that belongs to all chronic illnesses. In his book, “Understanding Depression,” J. Raymond DePaulo, M.D. of the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine cites a study that 40 percent of adults living with a depressed person experience depression themselves. I imagine similar statistics exist for other forms of illness.. Our marriage, like others challenged by chronic illness, could have easily dissolved. The exhaustive efforts of my recovery program coupled with his frustration at having more jobs — including most of the domestic chores — fall on him has caused strain. Especially in the beginning. We weren’t ready for the lifetime nature of my diagnosis, and its implications for both of our lives.. Communication — and my being married to the person who I think should be the next pope — .  with imperfect circumstances.. Good. Bad. Ugly. Sweet. Funny. Raw. We don’t hold back. Even as he doesn’t like hearing that I’m battling death thoughts, he wants to know. I don’t like hearing that my illness is hard for him and he’s frustrated by my manic energy, but I must know.. We abide by rules.. I stay accountable to him — to do everything I possibly can to stay well. If I don’t sleep for three nights, our rules say I have to call my doctor. I have to give her a ring after three days of constant crying, as well. When he asks me if I’m suicidal, I have to tell him the truth, which is extremely difficult when you are planning your exit and would rather keep it to yourself. The rules say that he will be with me whenever I want to take my life. He could be in the midst of presenting a set of blue prints to an important client, but he will drop them and run home.. I write him a love letter every morning.. I am the sick one. I know he has the harder job. So I thank him profusely. Every single day I list all of his qualities that I love about him — starting with his dimples, ending with the incredible .  he shows to me and to our family.  It’s not enough to tell him I love him. I want him to know why I love him. I want him to know I think it’s unfair that he has to live with my sickness and put up with all the messiness that it entails, that I am aware of all of his sacrifices on my behalf.. The end result is that we’ve come closer together.  I credit him with most of that. If it were I that were the caretaker? I question my patience and resolve.  I might hire some company to do the hard stuff. Like all forms of disillusionment and disappointment, chronic illness is a powerful force in a relationship that can scatter toxic energy into vulnerable places, or that can reveal the true depth and beauty of a relationship.. I’d like to think we chose the second road. But it takes great effort to get there and to stay there.