People who have a strong sweet tooth matched with a genetic sensitivity to bitter flavors may be at increased risk of developing metabolic syndrome, according to research published in the . . Differences in basic taste perception can affect food choices, which may in turn influence risk of obesity-related conditions like . .. The study, conducted at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, analyzed taste preferences in 196 overweight adults. The researchers used simple taste tests to identify “sweet-likers” as well as “supertasters,” people with an extreme sensitivity to specific bitter compounds. Both taste profiles are controlled in part by genetics. Previous studies have found that bitter and sweet taster status can impact food preferences and body weight.. Individuals classified as both sweet-likers and supertasters were more likely to have metabolic syndrome than those who fell into one, but not both, of these categories. Interestingly, people identified as neither sweet-likers nor supertasters were also at increased risk.. Metabolic syndrome is a group of risk factors that, in combination, increase risk for heart disease, stroke, and . . To be diagnosed, individuals must have at least three of five components: large waist circumference (equal to or greater than 40 inches for men or 35 inches for women); elevated blood pressure (equal to or greater than 130/85 mm Hg); elevated triglycerides (equal to or greater than 150 mg/dl); elevated fasting blood sugar level (equal to or greater than 100 mg/dl); and low HDL or “good” cholesterol levels (less than 40 mg/dl in men or 50 mg/dl in women).. Approximately one in three U.S. adults meet the criteria for metabolic syndrome, according to data from the National Health Statistics Report produced by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Older adults are more likely to have metabolic syndrome, as are people who are overweight or physically inactive.. The relationship between taster status and metabolic syndrome is thought to be influenced by what people eat, the researchers wrote in the study. Taster status was associated with fiber consumption and calorie intake from beverages, and although the exact relationship wasn't made clear in the study, these diet-related findings may help explain the link between taste sensitivity and blood pressure, blood sugar, and other features of metabolic syndrome. It’s possible that people with a high affinity for sweetness may sip more sugary drinks, while bitter-sensitive supertasters might avoid certain fiber-rich vegetables because of their strong taste, the study authors theorize. More research is needed to determine if these theories will help explain the relationship between bitter and .  and disease risk.. Understanding the impact of bitter and sweet preferences on daily food choices may improve metabolic-syndrome prevention efforts, according to the researchers: “Assessing genetic differences in taster preferences may be a useful strategy in the development of more tailored approaches to dietary interventions to prevent and treat metabolic syndrome."