 As patents on popular opioid painkillers OxyContin (oxycodone) and Opana (oxymorphone) start expiring, makers of the brand products warn that the potential non-tamper-resistant generics are unsafe, and some legislators are concerned as well.. Drugmakers Purdue and Endo Pharmaceuticals have taken steps to keep generic competition at bay, and late last month, Sen. Tom Coburn, MD, (R.-Okla.), a member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, and Rep. Fred Upton (R.-Mich.), chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, sent a letter to HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius asking for more information on the "imminent release of non-tamper-resistant versions of extended-release opioids and the impact ... on our nation's struggle against prescription drug abuse.". When OxyContin was first released in 1995, Purdue Pharma claimed the drug would be harder to abuse because of its extended-release formulation. But users quickly learned to crush the tablet in order to release its full opioid punch right away.. So the company upgraded, releasing an .  that made the drug harder to crush, chew, or dissolve.. Endo Pharmaceuticals followed a similar path with Opana, which was initially approved in 2006 and got an abuse-resistant upgrade in May 2012.. Both companies have voluntarily pulled the original versions of their drugs from the market.. But experts point out that Purdue and Endo likely had patent expiration on their minds when they made their pills harder to abuse. Original OxyContin comes off patent in April 2013, and generic versions of original Opana could be marketed as of Jan. 1.. Purdue has already filed patent-infringement lawsuits against several generic drugmakers, including Watson and Teva, and launched a . , the purpose of which, some say, is to extend OxyContin's patent by 6 months.. Endo has also been lobbying state legislators to prevent pharmacists from substituting generics that aren't tamper-resistant, albeit with little success. The company also .  to block generic versions of Opana, but the lawsuit was dismissed at the end of last year.. "It's not difficult to be cynical about their motives" for fighting the upcoming generics, said David Juurlink, MD, PhD, a drug safety researcher and internist at the University of Toronto. "The notion that generics that aren't tamper-resistant are going to make a huge contribution to the [prescription drug abuse] problem is probably not quite true.". On the other hand, he said, one could probably make the case that all drugs should be tamper-resistant.. "It won't completely eliminate abuse, for sure it will not, but it will make it difficult to misuse," he said.. Steve Gelfand, MD, a semi-retired rheumatologist in Myrtle Beach, S.C., and a critic of opioid overuse, said he felt having non-tamper-resistant generics on the market would indeed have an impact on addiction and overdose rates.. "This is the one time we would tend to agree with Purdue about what could happen if they release those generics," Gelfand told . .. Some researchers say the jury is still out as to whether making drugs abuse-resistant can truly deter abuse. .  found that the OxyContin reformulation sent drug users looking for other pills that were easier to abuse.. The FDA is currently in the process of defining what qualifies a drug as tamper-resistant, per a provision slipped into last summer's Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) reauthorization, known as the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act.. The deadline on that guidance is Jan. 9, although it's unclear what impact it would have on the development of generic OxyContin and Opana. A .  are developing abuse-resistant drugs.. A statement from the Generic Pharmaceutical Association (GPhA) noted that generic drugmakers will "comply fully with all FDA requirements and are committed to working with the agency to ensure the safety and quality of the medicines they make.". Impax Laboratories, set to make generic Opana, told .  it has not yet shipped any product, even though they were able to do so on Jan. 1.. The letter from Sen. Coburn and Rep. Upton asked HHS whether the FDA would have the authority to prevent the marketing of these drugs "should they jeopardize the public health," and whether Sebelius herself could suspend the approval of such generics if she finds a similar hazard.. It also asks for an update on the tamper-resistant guidance due from FDA next week.. A spokesperson for HHS told .  that the request was forwarded to the FDA, which said in an email that "issuing the draft guidance expeditiously is a high priority for the agency, and FDA staff are working diligently to issue the guidance as soon as possible.". The HHS spokesperson said FDA and HHS are working together to draft a response to the Coburn/Upton letter but could not give further details.. Juurlink practices in Canada, where generics of original OxyContin came to market more than a month ago, after the patent expired last November. Several groups had protested approval of this agent, with no success.. He said the solution for the problem in the U.S. is easy: "If [Purdue and Endo] are primarily concerned about safety ... let them put their money where their mouths are, and sell their drugs at the same price as the generics.". "Then," he said, "the only people seeking out the generics would be the people intent on crushing them.". Source: 