 patients often take "non-steroidal anti-inflammatory" medications to control their pain. However, there's another drug class called "biologics" that can also effectively reduce discomfort.. Biologics treat stiffness, pain, and inflammation, and early research suggests that these medications could also reduce blood vessel damage and protect against certain types of heart disease. Biologics block the protein TNF, or tumor necrosis factor, which plays a role in the immune response. So far, four biologics have been cleared for the . . These drugs include: infliximab (Remicade), etanercept (Enbrel), adalimumab (Humira), and golimumab (Simponi).. Doctors usually prescribe biologics after three months of unsuccessful treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAIDs) medications. Those with mild ankylosing spondylitis (AS) can take NSAIDs for pain, but others have damaged joints and should reassess the effectiveness of their treatment.. "If I already see they've had erosion of the sacroiliac joints, that tells me the disease is going to progress," says Beth Jonas, MD, a rheumatologist, associate professor of rheumatology at the Thurston Arthritis Research Center at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine in Chapel Hill. "TNF inhibitors are remarkably more effective than the anti-inflammatories," she adds.. TNF inhibitors do not cure AS, and it's not known whether these biologics actually slow down the disease's progression. "We can't predict when we see a patient at baseline how severe their disease is going to be," Dr. Jonas says. "What we do know is that the TNF inhibitors will control inflammation and control signs and symptoms.". TNF blockers increase risk of infection, and reactivation of tuberculosis is a possibility. More research is needed to understand the risk for certain cancers, such as lymphoma. "We have data from people who have been on them for 10 or 15 years," Jonas says, but the effects after 20, 30, or more years aren't well understood.. Anti-TNF drugs aren't recommended if you have certain medical conditions, such as .  or . . Make sure your doctor knows your entire health history before you start on one of these drugs.. TNF inhibitors require regular shots or infusions and are expensive if not covered by your medical insurance. The dosage and treatment schedule depends on your disease status and how well you have responded to other medications. Here are a few plan options:. Discuss the possible side effects of TNF blockers with your doctor, and follow these simple steps to stay healthy while on the medication: