Everyone knows that positive lifestyle habits — such as daily exercise, good-for-you foods, and plenty of sleep — are key to staying healthy, both physically and psychologically.. But if you have . , the condition presents a delicate delimma: Even though these habits can help you keep your blues in check, it’s tempting to temporarily numb your feelings by indulging in . healthy coping mechanisms, such as booze and comfort food.. “It’s important to stay mindful of the dangerous potential of these traps,” says Anthony DeCamello, PhD, a clinical psychologist in private practice in Garden City, N.Y. “Self-negating, distorted thinking and feelings of hopelessness pave the way for using them as comforting, if desperate, options. They are palliatives that in the end are chronically unsatisfying and can fuel further depression.”. From self-medicating or withdrawing socially, these choices can be physically as well as mentally harmful:.  “You feel better when high or . , but the later effect is a reduction in brain activity,” says David M. Reiss, MD, a psychiatrist in San Diego. “Alcohol is actually a chemical depressant. Many drugs, such as amphetamines, can have a chemical ‘crash’ afterwards — they cause the high by stimulating neurotransmitters and then, when they wear off, there is a depletion of neurotransmitters.”.  Putting yourself in “solitary confinement” is an all-too-unfortunate symptom for many people with . . And since those with depression usually just want to be alone, this can be a difficult depression trap to break out of. “Depression is often about feeling alone, about feeling a loss of connection to anyone else,” says Leslie Seppinni, PhD, a clinical psychologist and family therapist in Beverly Hills. “Try to find some spiritual, not necessarily religious, connection to give you stability as well as a purpose. Utilizing the four Cs — courage, conviction, commitment, and curiosity — will help people avoid depression traps.”.  Norman E. Rosenthal, MD, a clinical professor of psychiatry at the Georgetown University School of Medicine in Washington, D.C., says that emotional eating is not all that different from abusing drugs or alcohol for people with depression: You are looking for a “high” feeling to fill an emptiness inside you. Try to be more aware of your behavior and realize why you are overeating. You may need to address the dependence on food as part of your depression counseling. At the other extreme, some people respond to major depressive disorder by not eating at all — and losing weight can actually be a warning sign of depression. Talk to your therapist if you experience a loss of appetite..  Shoshana Bennett, PhD, a clinical psychologist and author of . , says there’s a fine line between having some healthy alone time and becoming a shut-in. “Sometimes ‘cocooning’ is good for you,” she says. “Being by yourself without outside stimulation to do whatever you want (or nothing) can be great. But if you find yourself avoiding social interactions and not returning your friends’ voice mails or e-mails, that’s a sign that you might be heading toward depression. If that’s happening, accept just one of those invitations, call just one friend back, and ease back into your life without being too overwhelmed.”.  One of the problems with staying shut in your house all day, explains Dr. Rosenthal, is that you’re robbing yourself of a healthy dose of sunlight, which can boost . , one of the brain’s feel-good chemicals. Simply getting outside and walking around a bit each day can be helpful for depression..  “Chronic sleep deprivation will lower your serotonin level and can cause depression and many other mental health issues,” Bennett says. “There are thousands of sleep-deprived people who don’t even know they’re depressed. Most people can take care of this on their own by going to bed earlier instead of watching TV or staying on the computer.” Practice good sleep hygiene, such as going to sleep and waking up at the same times every day. But if you have insomnia and cannot sleep despite your best efforts, she suggests consulting a practitioner you trust..  Drugs, alcohol, and food aren’t the only outlets that people with depression turn to. “Addictive behaviors such as excessive shopping, casual sex, binge eating, gambling, or other things you are doing to get a high are typically followed by a ‘low,’” says Rosenthal. These addictions should be treated similarly to drugs and alcohol from a mental health standpoint, he notes..  Trying to boost your mood with antidepressants prescribed to a friend or relative (or gotten illegally) is dangerous and doesn’t address the underlying reason for your depression. Says Harrald Magny, PhD, a psychologist in New York City: “Too often people believe they can solve their depression on their own by avoiding the issue or taking a friend’s antidepressant medication for a day or two — I strongly discourage anyone from taking any medication that is not prescribed to them.” These aren’t effective substitutes for seeing a qualified health care professional, especially when you’re facing clinical depression, he adds.. These behavior traps can mask an undiagnosed depression or worsen your emotional health. By replacing depression traps with mood-boosting habits, you’ll be better able to conquer your depression.