 — Overall, Americans with diabetes control the condition better than in the past, according to a new report from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Considering the .  in the past two decades, the finding is a positive one.. But while a growing number of people with diabetes are able to meet their recommended goals in all three ABCs — A1C (blood glucose), blood pressure, and cholesterol levels — the news isn't all rosy. Many people with diabetes don't have a handle on their condition. According to the report, each individual ABC goal was met by more than 50 percent, but 81.2 percent still failed to achieve all three ABC goals. Some groups show more room for improvement than others.. "Although our results showed a dramatic increase in the proportion of people with diabetes who met the ABC goals, there is still much room for improvement," says the paper's first author, Sarah Stark Casagrande, PhD, an epidemiologist from Social & Scientific Systems Inc. Her work is supported by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), which funded the research.. For people with diabetes, knowing and managing one's ABCs can lower risk for . , such as heart attack and stroke.. From 1988 to 2010, the number of people with diabetes who meet all three ABC goals grew by roughly 17 percent, rising from about 2 percent to about 19 percent. Young people and some minority groups, however, were less likely to achieve the optimal blood pressure, blood sugar, and cholesterol levels.. Mexican Americans were less likely to meet A1C and LDL (bad cholesterol) goals, and non-Hispanic blacks were less likely to meet blood pressure and LDL goals compared to non-Hispanic whites, the study authors report online today in . . Younger individuals (those between ages 20 and 49) were less likely to meet blood sugar and cholesterol goals.. For the study, researchers with the NIDDK analyzed data from several National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys ranging from 1988 to 2010.. "It is particularly disturbing that good control was seen less frequently in young people," said Judith Fradkin, MD, director of the NIDDK Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Metabolic Diseases, in a release from the NIH/NIDDK. "Research has shown that good diabetes control early in the course of disease has long-lasting benefits reducing the risk of complications. For people with long life expectancy after diagnosis of diabetes, it's especially important to focus on meeting diabetes management goals as early as possible, because with that longer life comes a greater chance of developing complications if they do not control their diabetes.". The noted improvements in diabetes control can likely be attributed to better therapies, such as . , and education programs that tout the benefits of eating right to control blood pressure and blood sugar to prevent complications, according to the report.. "Improvements in ABC control are likely a result of new and improved medications and monitoring devices, increasing research from several landmark studies that showed the importance of managing diabetes, and better communication and translation of this information to people with diabetes and their medical practitioners," Dr. Casagrande says.. Still, there is more work to be done by way of better access to care and education, and research into new therapeutic approaches.. "As the U.S. population ages and . , it becomes increasingly urgent to find ways to overcome barriers to good diabetes management and deliver affordable, quality care so those with diabetes can live a longer and healthier life without serious diabetes complications," the study authors write.. "We are hopeful that diabetes control will continue to improve," says Casagrande, citing increases in the proportion of people taking blood pressure and cholesterol medication, and the effectiveness of new glycemic medications. She also credits the progress to the work of the . , helping people learn about how to best control their diabetes, and attention paid to healthy behaviors related to preventing obesity and diabetes.