Research has established the benefits of regular aerobic exercise: Running, swimming, and biking all can reduce your risk of heart disease, cancer, and — yes — diabetes, according to the National Institutes of Health. But now scientists believe that people with diabetes can benefit from a regular weight, or strength, training routine as well. In fact, the American Diabetes Association recommends that all people, even those without chronic illness, strength train at least twice a week. Not only can lifting weights help improve .  symptoms, but when part of a workout plan that includes aerobics, it can put you on the path to long-term good health.. Diabetes is marked by the body's inability to process glucose and use insulin efficiently, but strength training can help with those issues. Here's how:. Even better results have been observed when people with type 2 diabetes combine a weight-training routine with regular aerobic exercise, adds Joseph. The two forms of .  work together to create better health benefits than either does on its own.. Strength training also can help guard against some .  by:. A weight-training routine involves performing movements that work specific muscle groups in the body. Each workout is broken down into exercises, reps, and sets in the following ways:. The American Diabetes Association suggests the following guidelines for a weight-training routine:. To help ensure good results and prevent injuries, follow these common sense rules:.  As with any exercise program, you should check with your doctor before starting a weight-training regimen..  Try to maintain proper posture, and perform each exercise exactly as required, even if it means you need to use less weight..  Exhale while lifting the weight and inhale while lowering it..  Every now and then, change the exercises in your workout, or alter the number of sets or reps you are doing. Your body adapts to exercise, and your progress can plateau if you don't keep your body guessing..  If you need some guidance, consider working with a trainer or joining a weight-training class at your local gym or YMCA.. Always give yourself time to recuperate. Don't work out using a muscle or joint that feels painful. In other words, don’t overdo it.