When . , what is your snack of choice? Chances are chips, candy bars, pizza, and ice cream are regulars in the rotation. While delicious, they're packed with empty calories and saturated fat, which will leave you hungrier (and guiltier) faster than you can hide the bags, boxes, and wrappers. But don't fear! There are healthy alternatives to your guilty pleasures that are packed with flavor .  nutrients that will fill you up. Before you succumb to the vending machine or snack aisle, add these four delicious bites to your recipe box.. If you haven’t jumped on the kale bandwagon yet, this nutrient-rich .  may do the trick. Subdue the urge to dig into a bag of nacho-cheese chips with the crunchy snack, packed with the flavor you crave (without the all the calories and sodium) thanks to vegan-friendly nutritional yeast and spices. The chips taste best fresh out of the oven — and they only take 20 minutes to whip up!. When you feel the urge to reach for a candy bar, have a better-for-you homemade version on hand to satisfy cravings the healthy way. The beloved coconut-chocolate bar gets a . . With fewer calories and sugar than the processed version, plus the addition of super-food ingredients like oats, almonds, and chia seeds, the bars require no cooking at all! This makes them the perfect treat to whip up during warmer months. Double the recipe and freeze extra bars for the whole family to grab when a candy craving hits.. Searching for a healthier after-school snack for the kids or a portable bite to combat the mid-afternoon munchies? Skip the frozen imitation-cheese pizza rolls and bake up a batch of .  instead. In just 20 minutes from start to finish you’ll have a snack just as tasty, with a dose of protein, magnesium, and fiber to keep everyone satisfied until dinner.. If you’re craving a cold and creamy treat on a hot summer day, trade sugar- and fat-laden ice cream for homemade fruit pops like this . . Naturally sweet blueberries offer 25 percent of your daily value of vitamin C (per 1-cup serving) while creamy avocado provides extra fiber, potassium, and vitamins.