Shouldn't one of the joys of aging be to finally forget about your weight and just relax? Unfortunately, even as a senior you have to think about . . In fact, it can become more difficult as you age because of changes in your body.. It can be perplexing: You find it a little harder to fit into your regular pants, and an extra walk each day just isn't taking care of those extra pounds. Even if you haven't changed your . , your body is changing. It's much easier for seniors to gain weight and much tougher to lose it.. If you feel like you're slowing down a little, you may be right, and your body is too — specifically, . . Metabolism is the process that your body performs to burn and use calories, and when it slows down, you don't use as many calories as you once did. Any unused calories turn into pounds and unwanted weight gain.. This means that as you age, your calorie intake should be lowered to prevent weight gain. If you're giving your body more than it needs, you’ll put on more weight..  may also be more difficult for you as an older adult, or maybe you're just not getting as much activity into your day as you should. Health problems, arthritis, and soreness may seem like good excuses to skip exercise, but you're doing yourself more harm than good by being sedentary. Research suggests that . , improve balance, and prevent depression among people over 65.. Maintaining a healthy body weight can keep you in shape through your senior years and ward off a host of health problems, including:. Ask your doctor about what your healthy body weight should be. One indicator of being overweight is your . .. Keep in mind that BMI isn't always the best indicator for everyone, which is another reason to talk to your doctor about the goal weight you should shoot for.. How do you achieve a healthy body weight, especially if your aging body is working against you? It's a tough job, but you can absolutely maintain a healthy body weight as a senior.. First, figure out how many calories you need to eat in a day to get to and maintain your ideal weight. .  and get little to no exercise need about 1,600 calories each day. That number jumps to 2,000 to 2,200 for very active women, and it's in the middle, at about 1,800 calories, for those whose activity levels are average.. Men over age 50 need about 2,000 calories each day if they're not very active, and between 2,200 and 2,400 if they're moderately active. Men who .  need between 2,400 and 2,800 calories.. Start with these basic numbers in mind, then meet your needs with healthy foods — not just any old calories. To stay full and satisfied while losing weight, try these changes to your diet:. Remember to add exercise into your weight management equation. Make a commitment to yourself to get active. It’s okay to start out slowly, then gradually increase your activity level until you're working out and burning calories on most days of the week. .  — and the easier it will be to maintain your weight.