 Similar to patients with heart attacks, depression is associated with worse outcomes in patients with stroke, researchers found.. In a multivariate adjusted analysis, patients with a history of both stroke and depression had significantly higher risks of both all-cause death up to 21 years of follow-up compared with patients with neither of the conditions, according to Amytis Towfighi, MD, of the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, and colleagues.. The findings, which were reported ahead of the American Academy of Neurology's annual meeting in March, highlight "the immense impact of depression on outcomes after stroke and underlines the importance of screening for and treating depression after stroke," Towfighi said in an email, noting that there are numerous simple tools that can be used to detect depression in a busy clinic setting.. She pointed out that stroke rehabilitation guidelines from the Department of Veterans Affairs/Department of Defense include recommendations on screening for depression, but said that "there are no guidelines that I am aware of that emphasize outpatient screening for depression.". The association between depression and outcomes has been studied frequently in patients with heart attacks, but has not been as well studied in patients with stroke, up to 30 percent of whom will develop depression.. Previous studies have shown that depression is associated with poorer quality of life, worse functional outcomes, and a greater risk of all-cause mortality in patients with stroke, but none had looked specifically at stroke-related mortality, according to Towfighi.. To explore the issue, she and her colleagues turned to the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) Epidemiologic Follow-up Study, which included individuals who participated in NHANES in 1971-1975, completed an interview in 1982-1984, and were followed through 1992.. Individuals were considered to have elevated depressive symptoms if they had a score of 16 or higher (out of 60) on the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression (CES-D) scale.. For the purposes of the current analysis, the researchers divided the participants into four groups:. The relationship between depression and both all-cause and stroke mortality in patients with stroke remained consistent after adjustment for demographics and sociodemographic factors.. Towfighi said the potential mechanism underlying the association "is incompletely understood, but there are both behavioral and physiological explanations.". "Behaviorally, individuals who are depressed may be less likely to live healthy lifestyles (abstaining from smoking, exercising regularly, and eating healthy). In addition, they may be less likely to take their medications and go to healthcare practitioners for routine follow-up," she said. "Physiologic processes, such as changes in platelet function, could also play a role.". Towfighi noted some limitations of the study, including the inability to establish a causal relationship between depression and outcomes based on observational data. In addition, the researchers lacked information on stroke severity and subtype, the time since stroke onset, and the duration of depression.. Source: 