 More than half of cardiovascular patients who could benefit from aspirin for secondary prevention were not prescribed the drug, researchers found.. Aspirin or other antiplatelet drugs were prescribed for secondary prevention in only 47 percent of outpatient visits in 2007-2008, a rate "virtually unchanged from the 2005-2006 period," according to Anand K. Parekh, MD, MPH, from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and colleagues.. Also in 2007-2008, general medicine or primary care physicians prescribed antiplatelet medications to cardiovascular patients only 35 percent of the time, a decrease from 38 percent in 2005-2006, they wrote in a perspective article published in the Jan. 17 issue of the . These data from the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey and National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey of the CDC "are sobering" in light of the evidence that aspirin can reduce recurrent major cardiovascular events such as stroke, heart attack, or peripheral arterial disease, the researchers wrote.. "[E]veryone without a contraindication should receive [aspirin]," they said.. The investigators pegged the number of U.S. adults at risk for a recurrent cardiovascular event at about 30 million, of whom most could benefit from an aspirin regimen.. With a staggering annual cost to the U.S. of $450 billion, cardiovascular events can be held at bay simply by utilizing "an inexpensive, over-the-counter drug that [needs to] be taken only once a day," Parekh and colleagues wrote.. The use of aspirin couldn't be more "straightforward," they said, as it requires no screening, no laboratory tests to outline a therapeutic course, and no specific behavioral changes.. Suboptimal prescribing can be bolstered by technology, Parekh and colleagues said, by including "aspirin reminders" in electronic health record systems.. The authors listed incentive programs to help increase evidence-based prescribing. The Physician Quality Reporting System, for example, will award physicians a 0.5 percent incentive payment for reporting quality measures that include aspirin use.. In addition, pay-for-reporting and subsequent pay-for-performance incentives for accountable care organizations will kick in under the Affordable Care Act, and quality measures include aspirin use for various patients such as those with ischemic vascular disease.. National awareness programs have been launched as well, including the American Heart Association's (AHA) . , the goal of which is to "focus, coordinate, and enhance activities for cardiovascular disease prevention across the public and private sectors in an effort to prevent one million heart attacks and strokes by 2017," the authors wrote.. Other national programs, such as the AHA's Get with the Guidelines and the CDC's Paul Coverdell National Acute Stroke Program, set the standard for aspirin to be prescribed at discharge.. In addition, many practices track performance measures such as adherence to evidence-based guidelines including aspirin therapy for secondary prevention, Parekh and colleagues said.. Outreach efforts need to be made to educate clinicians about initiatives, programs, registries, and technological solutions geared toward improving the use of aspirin to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events, they said.. "There is an important and urgent opportunity to engage all healthcare providers, particularly primary care providers, in a singular, simple intervention with the potential to prevent heart attacks and strokes and save lives," they concluded.. Source: 