 The high resolution of cardiac MR imaging revealed structural and functional damage to the hearts of obese adolescents prior to bariatric surgery and reversal of that damage after surgery, a small study found.. At baseline, the 10 obese adolescents in the study — with a mean body mass index of 50 kg/m.  — had evidence of heart enlargement, with a mean left ventricular (LV) mass of 122 g versus 101 g in normal-weight controls, according to Marc P. Michalsky, MD, and colleagues from the Ohio State University College of Medicine in Columbus.. "Relative to subject-specific expected normal weight values, the obese patients averaged an additional 20 g of LV mass," a result that was "quite striking," they wrote in the January issue of the Journal of Pediatric Surgery.. Researchers had follow-up imaging data on five patients whom they tracked because of their positive adenosine stress tests prior to surgery.. Follow-up imaging at a mean of 9 months showed reductions in LV mass in the range of 2 to 12 g in four patients, while three had "complete resolution" of the sub-endocardial ischemia and the remaining two showed a "marked improvement.". "The primary observations we want to present in this publication are that extremely obese adolescents have enlarged hearts at rest and, in many cases, stress-induced perfusion deficits, which are hallmark characteristics of adult heart patients," Michalsky told . . "Thus far, it appears that the sub-endocardial ischemia, when present, can be reversed following bariatric surgery and may be more dynamic or reversible during weight loss.". A larger study presented at the 2009 American Heart Association meeting by Holly Ippisch, MD, of Cincinnati Children's Hospital, and colleagues also found .  in severely obese adolescents at 6 months that persisted out to 2 years.. Michalsky and colleagues emphasized the importance of using cardiac MRI in very obese adolescents because of its ability to deliver high-fidelity images of cardiac structure and function, particularly compared with transthoracic echocardiography.. Cardiac MRI is "not impeded by extensive thoracic fat deposits and chest wall expansion unlike acoustic imaging methods," they wrote.. They also noted that many cardiac conditions in adults are associated with chronic LV enlargement including chronic . , acute MI, arrhythmia, stroke, and sudden cardiac death.. But none of these adolescent patients showed any signs of scarring, "a feature that is widely believed to be irreversible and predictive of heart failure and sudden death in the adult population, [which] supports the hypothesis that 'early' intervention [such as] adolescent weight-loss surgery may have advantages with regards to cardiac recovery," they wrote.. In this preliminary study, the researchers retrospectively analyzed data from 10 severely obese adolescents (nine girls, mean age 17).. Patients had undergone either Roux-en-Y gastric bypass or laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding at Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio, in 2008.. All patients had at least one of the following comorbid conditions: hypertension, dyslipidemia, acanthosis nigricans, insulin resistance, and obstructive sleep apnea. Two girls had polycystic ovary disease, which has been shown to be associated with obesity.. Along with greater LV mass, the obese patients had greater LV end-diastolic volume at baseline relative to expected normal-weight values: 156 mL versus 109 mL.. Again, researchers noted the "striking" 47 mL difference between what would be the expected normal LV end-diastolic volume and what they found in the obese patients.. However, they did not identify a consistent pattern of change in LV end-diastolic volume, "most likely secondary to the extremely low number of subjects that underwent follow-up analysis," Michalsky said.. Obesity also affected LV ejection fraction, as the patients had a mean value of 61 percent compared with 71 percent for expected normative values.. Functionally, all patients were at a disadvantage as they averaged a 50 percent lower myocardial perfusion reserve index compared with the calculated expected normative values.. Researchers wondered if there were markers they could link with the structural and functional changes. Their analysis found that an increase in LV mass was directly correlated with systolic blood pressure.. There were no other statistically significant relationships that could be associated with the structural and functional changes in these individuals.. These data need to be confirmed in larger studies, the researchers said.. They also noted that the study is limited by its retrospective nature and small patient sample.. Source: 