There’s still a lot we don’t know about the inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) called Crohn's, including its exact causes. Scientists have found that there are a number of .  risk factors at work, such as smoking, the environment, changes to your immune system, and your ethnic background. But the most significant Crohn’s risk factor appears to be a family history of the condition.. According to the . , studies have shown that 5 to 20 percent of those with Crohn's or ulcerative colitis have either a parent, child, or sibling with one of the diseases. One statistic in particular highlights the role that genes play in developing Crohn’s: When one identical twin gets Crohn's disease, there's a 1 in 3 chance that the other twin will develop it eventually, too.. Most cases of Crohn’s are diagnosed relatively early in life, between ages 15 and 35. But even infants in their first few months can have IBD, says . , professor of pediatrics and director of the Pediatric Inflammatory Bowel Disease Program at the University of California in San Francisco. Because early detection is important to limit the damage Crohn’s disease can do, knowing that you have a family history of Crohn’s can put you on the alert for its warning signs.. Despite the family link, it’s important to remember that having a Crohn’s family history does not automatically mean you will develop the disease. Even having the genes doesn’t predetermine a diagnosis. According to the . , it appears to take an interaction of multiple factors to trigger the disease. While you can’t change your parentage, one step you can take to cut your risk is to not smoke — and smoking once you have Crohn’s is believed to make flares more severe, too. In fact, according to a . , smoking can just about double any Crohn’s family risk you might have.. If you do have a history of Crohn's in your family, one question you might wrestle with is whether to consider early testing to look for the disease. Dr. Heyman recommends waiting for persistent symptoms to appear before beginning the screening process. Here are the most common ones (seen in 70 to 80 percent of patients), in order of frequency:. The next set of symptoms may accompany the above:. Though many of these symptoms can indicate other woes, if you have a Crohn’s family history and you repeatedly experience many of the warning signs, talk with your doctor about your risk and when to start testing. Diagnosing Crohn’s usually involves lab tests on blood and stool samples, imaging studies (MRIs or X-rays), and endoscopies, including a colonoscopy, that let doctors see your intestinal tract.. Certain genes with a possible link to Crohn's have also been identified, but genetic testing is not yet available for the general population, says Heyman. Still, research is continuing to identify genes present in people with Crohn’s disease, to better understand the disease, guide treatment, and in the future, find a cure.