 — Despite relatively flat spending on health care for the third consecutive year in the United States, insurance companies are seeking .  for certain policies. Health economists blame this disconnect on the recently passed Affordable Care Act (ACA), which, until it takes a full and balanced effect in early 2014, will cause people's ability to afford medical coverage to suffer.. According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the country has experienced only a .  — 3.9 percent — with the total health care tab holding firm at $2.7 trillion in 2011. The growth in health costs has been on par with the economy in general for the past two years.. But now certain states — California, Florida, and Ohio, to name a few — have either announced or implemented insurance premium hikes at or above 20 percent. Yet a provision of the new ACA is to monitor and potentially restrict such bold moves. However, Obamacare has yet to be fully implemented.. "This year is a transition year," says . . "So in 2014, the insurance exchanges are going to come into place and it will be a whole different ball game, but at the moment, some of the provisions of the healthcare reform have gone into place, but not all.". "The . . It's a stepping stone," says Mark Colwell of Chicago based insurance company . . "First off is how do we get more people covered and how to reduce cost is next.". Furthermore, premium hikes won't affect everyone. "It's not all health insurance plans that are going up, its predominantly small business and sort of individual policies," says Dr. Marks. "And the problems with these kinds of plans — with small business and sort of self-policies — is that they don't have the same risk-pulling benefits that a large group policy would have.". Elevated premiums and higher medical costs also have greater implications for the general public. .  reports that, in 2011, consumer expenses for doctors, prescription drugs, and private health insurance grew significantly. But such spending may not be sustainable.. "Higher costs of medical care can affect medical care, essentially pricing people out of going to the doctor," says Colwell. "It's a broken system.  Health care costs are on the rise. We need to figure out how to be efficient with health care," he adds.. "In as much as expanding health insurance coverage is going to take some people who are uninsured and give them insurance, if these individuals are sicker than sort of the average member of the population, than we should expect to see .  rise," says Marks.. Even though the country has been experiencing a slight economic recovery — moderate progress in job availability and income — concern over the extent of future health care improvements still remains.. "We're moving how people get insurance. That's part of what the health care bill is doing. It's moving to get insurance on the private market, from the government, from your firm, and as we switch people from one type of insurance to another type of insurance, as long as there's differences in health and therefore the costs of providing medical care and therefore the cost of providing insurance, we're going to see these premium movements," says Marks.