You know you're guilty: You can't stop looking at your ex's Facebook page after you break up.. Checking the Facebook page of an ex-partner through direct contact or via friends-of-friends channels may be bad for your .  — especially when smiling photos pop up in your newsfeed and tempt you to click. Now there are scientific reasons why you need to back away from your computer screen.. A .  published this month in the journal Cyberpsychology, Behavior, and Social Networking found that frequently keeping tabs on an ex-partner on Facebook created greater distress over the breakup and lower personal growth. It also made study participants .  their ex.. The sample included 464 participants: 84 percent were female and recruited by posting links to an online survey on several survey hosting websites. Eighty-seven percent were American, 60 percent where in undergraduate school, 48 percent were single, and 71 percent were exclusively dating a single partner.. "Regardless of whether or not you remain Facebook friends with your ex, engaging in greater Facebook surveillance ... is linked to greater current distress over the breakup, negative feelings, sexual desire, longing for the ex-partner, and lower personal growth," said Tara C Marshall, one of the authors of the study from Brunel University in London.. On the other hand, researchers also said that seeing all those "banal status updates, comments, and photos of an ex-partner through remaining Facebook friends" may decrease any residual attraction to the ex-partner.. "It could be that people who remained .  friends with their ex lost their attraction and became more indifferent to the ex with continuing exposure to them on Facebook," says Marshall.. Authors said the study's take-home message is that keeping tabs on an ex-partner through Facebook is associated with poorer emotional recovery and personal growth following a breakup.. "Therefore, avoiding exposure to an ex-partner, both offline and online, may be the best remedy for healing a broken heart," they wrote.