 . Pediatric cancer cases account for only 2 percent of the world's cancer patient population, and the fact that there are relatively few cases makes it challenging to research and develop new, more effective treatments for childhood cancers, according to a paper just published in the journal . In addition, childhood cancer treatments that are available in developed countries are often unavailable or too expensive for use in the developing world.. Kathy Pritchard-Jones, MD, PhD, professor at University College London, who specializes in childhood cancer research and is the lead author of the paper, attributes the low volume of research to the pharmaceutical industry's failure to make pediatric oncology drugs a priority. "It's not financially rewarding," she explains. "They want the patient population to be large enough so that it's lucrative.". The need is especially acute in developing countries. The authors report that at least 1 in 1,000 adults in wealthy countries are survivors of some form of childhood cancer. However, 94 percent of all cancer deaths of children age 14 and younger are in middle-class and poor countries.. In the United States,1 in 400 children is diagnosed with cancer before the age of 15, according to the authors. Cancer is the second leading cause of death, after accidents, among U.S. children age 14 and younger, and this year, around 11,630 children are expected to die of some form of cancer, according to the American Cancer Society. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia, which is cancer of the white blood cells, is the most common type affecting U.S. children, accounting for 3,000 new cases each year, based on statistics from the American Society of Clinical Oncology.. While the survival rate for pediatric cancers has risen from 30 percent to 80 percent for children in the developed countries, poorer countries remain stagnant in their ability to treat .  . , .  and bones, and other cancers that impact the youngest patients. Cancer mortality rates are much higher among children in developing countries. In Africa, for example, an average of 5.16 percent of cancer deaths were children versus only 0.2 percent of among the European population.. Because the child cancer patient population is so small, it can be difficult to test new treatments on children in only one country, say the authors. To effectively meet this challenge, cancer researchers strive to work internationally — with collaborative groups from a number of countries and organizations conducting clinical trials together as a way create a larger pool of patients to test a treatment.. To help address the problem, the study authors urge medical researchers and pharmaceutical companies to shift their childhood cancer research priorities. They suggest focusing on "new .  approaches" —. a growing field in cancer treatment — and on research that seeks to classify cancer not by where it appears in the body but by its cellular composition.. A doctor could then diagnose and treat a patient based mainly on the genetic makeup of their cancer. Genetic defects "can then be matched against an anti-cancer drug that is specifically targeted against cells that carry that mutation," explains Pritchard-Jones."In theory, this should lead to better and safer treatments for children, but it is a long process, because there are hundreds of drugs and genetic defects, and getting the matching right takes time.". Many in the medical community also believe that wealthier countries must help improve pediatric cancer treatment in less privileged countries. "The next step that I think is critical is finding care that is affordable," says Rabi Hanna, MD, a pediatric oncologist and director of pediatric bone marrow transplant program at the Cleveland Clinic Children’s Hospital. "We have more obligation to be able to provide therapy at a lower cost to people around the world. Many places don't have very cheap chemotherapy that we do where and take for granted.". In a country like the United States, Dr. Hanna says, there are different roadblocks to treating children with cancer than in developing nations. "Many of the cancers in pediatrics are very unique and don't even occur in adults," he says.. Dr. Hanna says health insurance can complicate cancer treatment, as with many chronic conditions, even after a patient's cancer has gone into remission. It can also be difficult for a person who has recovered from cancer in childhood to obtain health insurance as an adult, because the cancer is viewed by insurance companies as a pre-existing condition. One of the central regulations in the Affordable Care Act will vastly improve these circumstances by preventing insurance companies from declining applications from individuals with chronic lifelong conditions.. Follow-up care may also be a critical missing piece for many with childhood cancer. Research has shown that pediatric cancer patients continue to feel the impact of their illness well into adulthood —. even if their disease is in full remission. One study, published in the .  in 2006, found pediatric cancer survivors were more likely to be diagnosed with at least one chronic condition as an adult. Out of the 10,397 survivors, 62.3 percent had at least one chronic condition, and 27.5 percent had a severe or life-threatening condition. Former pediatric cancer patients were also found to be less successful socioeconomically as adults.