 There's promising news for people with gastroesophageal reflux disease, commonly known as . . According to a study published today in the . , researchers at Mayo Clinic in Florida have created a magnetic bracelet that can actually help control the digestive disorder.. In the United States alone, one in three people have GERD, reports the American Gastroenterological Association — a condition in which stomach acid enters the esophagus as a result of muscular weakness. Heartburn, chest pain, and throat irritation are among the . , which are usually treated with over-the-counter medications or prescription drugs.. The new device — a small magnetic bead bracelet inserted surgically — keeps the area where the esophagus meets the stomach closed, restricting the entrance of acid, specifically while a person is not eating or drinking anything. It was developed to treat people with chronic GERD symptoms that can't be controlled with drug treatment, and which, in some severe cases, can lead to development of . . Patients undergo a modestly invasive, one-to-two hour procedure to put in the device, which requires overnight hospitalization.. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the device, technically referred to as the LINX Reflux Management System and developed with the support of Torax Medical, in March 2012. Since then, the Mayo researchers have been following a group of patients who have had it implanted.. “This is really more intended for patients with daily reflux who are dependent on medication to control reflux and need to take increasing doses to keep symptoms under control," says study co-author and GERD specialist C. Daniel Smith, MD, surgery department chair at Mayo Clinic.. Bettina B. Kilburn, MD, of Atlanta, had the device implanted in April 2012 and reports that her recovery time was brief and manageable. "My GERD was pretty symptomatic," explains Dr. Kilburn of her decision to get the device. "It was reasonably controlled with medication and a pretty strict diet, but it had gotten worse and I was leaning towards a mechanical solution.". The magnets in the bracelet provide controlled flexibility for the opening and closing of the esophagus. The magnetic beads temporarily "break" when food needs to pass through to the stomach. Afterwards, the magnetic attraction closes off the channel, halting further exposure to stomach acid.. Of 100 patients tested over a three-year period at Mayo, 92 experienced decreased GERD symptoms and 87 percent stopped taking medication for acid suppression. Only six patients experienced severe side effects, resulting in the removal of the device among four of them without any major long-term effects. Additionally, 68 percent of test subjects encountered . , but that eventually subsided.. "This is the first new, safe and effective treatment we have to treat reflux disease in 20 years," Dr. Smith said in a press release. "The device is simple, elegant and functional, and it provides an opportunity to help a very large number of patients. The only treatment options in the past have been acid-suppressing agents or surgery. Acid-suppressing agents don't directly address the underlying ineffective valve [between the esophagus and the stomach], leaving patients with persistent symptoms; surgery can lead to distressing side effects of bloating and inability to vomit in 20 percent of patients. These side effects occurred rarely with this new device.". Smith expects the device, once implanted, will last a lifetime. Costs will vary depending on the institution and the patient's insurance coverage. “Compared to a lifetime of daily medications where that prescription can cost $1,000 a month, this is a one-time cost that will give people a lifetime of relief,“ says Smith.. "I would have the implant again in a heartbeat," Kilburn says. "I certainly recommend that anyone with GERD consider the full range of available options. For the right patient, it really transforms your life ... GERD was running my life. I prefer to run my own life."