You enjoy getting it on, but lately, there’s been a lot less sex (and a lot more snoozing) going on under your covers. What’s going on? “Sex often becomes just another item on our jam-packed ‘to-do’ lists, and many couples are struggling to keep it from remaining at the bottom,” says . , a psychiatrist in Beverly Hills, California. But there are plenty of reasons to make sex a priority again, she says. Getting busy has been shown to relieve stress, keep relationships healthy, boost mood, improve sleep, and a whole lot more (plus, it feels good!).. From your Monday night de-stressor to an end-of-the-week wind-down, here are seven great reasons to get it on over the next week.. For many adults, the start of the workweek is the most stressful day of the week. “People often feel more frustrated and rushed on Mondays,” says . , a marriage and family therapist in Santa Barbara, California.. A great way to relieve stress? You guessed it: sex. Before and during climax, your body releases the hormone oxytocin, which stimulates feelings of warmth and relaxation, according to . . “If you and your partner plan ahead for Monday night sex, it’s something to look forward to throughout the day when things start to overwhelm you,” notes Dr. Lieberman.. In the romance languages, Tuesday is named after the planet Mars (.  in Spanish and .  in French), and Mars is associated with energy, action, and desire, says Freed. “If you don’t use your Mars in a sexual way, you may find yourselves bickering and irritated with each other,” she explains.. And don’t wait till lights-out (when you’re likely going to be exhausted). Instead, have a quickie when you both get home from work. “Dinner can wait,” says Freed.. “Midweek, you need a boost of loving to remind you that no matter how stressful life gets, you are lucky to have someone who’s got your back and thinks you’re the best,” says Lieberman. On Wednesday morning, why not get up a half-hour early and have sex before you hit the shower? That way, you'll walk into work feeling calm and ready to take on the day.. Thursday night is a great time to have a quiet, romantic evening with your honey and remind yourselves that you appreciate one another (and still turn each other on!). “You’re glad to be making it through the week together,” Freed says. “Sex late on a Thursday afternoon or early evening is for making that connection with your partner and saying, ‘We’re in this together.’”. It’s Friday — time to make merry in and out of the bedroom.“You can really take the time to enjoy .  and lovemaking,” says Freed. And since sex has been shown to improve intimacy between partners, Fridays may just be one of the best days of the week for your sexual health.. “Of any day, Saturday is a great day to make sex a priority,” says Freed. “You’ve got the time, and it’s really important for your sexual health.” Is your Saturday already over-scheduled? Swap time at the gym for a romp with your partner. It may not fully replace that cardio session, but many .  range from 100 to 200 calories (depending on the intensity), so you’ll still get a workout.. “A great way to refuel for the week is to have sex on Sundays,” says Freed. And it might just keep you from getting sick: According to a study published in December 2015 in the journal . , getting busy may boost the female immune system. Plus, it can help you .  (thanks to relaxing hormones that provide stress relief), which can help you feel more rested on Monday morning.