 bottles 100% USDA certified organic juices using a high-pressure, heatless procedure that extends freshness for up to 13 days in a fridge.. 
                  Plans: One, two, or three days, six juices per day, starting at $65. 
                  Celeb sippers: Blake Lively, Ashley Greene, Olivia Wilde, Bethenny Frankel, Ginnifer Goodwin, Sarah Jessica Parker. 
                  “When juicing, you lose out on some of the fiber content found in whole fruits and vegetables,” Middleberg says. “But a benefit of juicing is that it gives your digestion system a break from working so hard to process a large meal.”.  juices are bottled using a hydraulic press, a machine that squashes an entire fruit or vegetable into a pulp.. 
                  Plans: One, three, and five days, six juices per day, starting at $58. 
                  Celeb sippers: Salma Hayek (cofounder alert!), Demi Moore, Sharon Stone, Leonardo DiCaprio, Rachel Zoe, Oprah Winfrey. Thanks to a cold-press process called the Norwalk method (it kills fewer nutrients than traditional, heat-based ways to extract juice), .  drinks made in New York City may contain three to five times more vitamins, minerals, and enzymes than other brands using a different procedure. Shelf-life is the same, lasting up to three days when refrigerated.. 
                  Plans: One, three, five, and seven days, four to eight juices per day, starting at $33. “Cleansing coaches” can help you choose the plan best for your lifestyle and goals.. Celeb sippers: Alec Baldwin, Daniel Craig, Ryan Gosling, Rachel Weiss, Collin Farrell, Chloe Sevigny, Jake Gyllenhaal. 
                  “I’ve heard of the Norwalk method, but I honestly don’t know if it does actually produce a better quality juice,” Middleberg says. “It just sounds like they’re using an extra fancy juicer.”. Nearly 20 pounds of USDA certified organic produce gets cold-pressed into a day's allotment of . .. Plans: One, two, three, four, and five days, six bottles per day, starting at $75 per day.. Ritual Cleanse Celeb Sippers: Kim Kardashian, Sofia Vergara, Camila Alves, Kris Jenner. “I love drinking smoothies before or after hitting the gym. These Shred drinks should be OK, too, as long as they have an adequate amount of protein and carbs to replenish and repair muscles afterward,” Middleberg says.