Spring brings warmer weather and longer days, while the autumn ushers in crisp air and pumpkin-spice lattes. But these seasonal changes aren't welcomed by everyone. For many of us, they're eclipsed by the itchy eyes, sneezing, and congestion of hay fever and other . . What to do?. 
                  . 
                  Some allergies are severe and require the attention of a doctor or other health care professional. For milder cases, though, home remedies may provide all the relief you need, with relatively little expense or hassle. Even people with bad allergies who need medication may find these at-home tips helpful for easing symptoms.. They may look exotic, but Neti pots are fast becoming a mainstream remedy for allergies and stuffed-up sinuses. The treatment, which involves rinsing your nasal cavity with a saline solution, flushes out allergens (like pollen) and loosens mucus.. Using a Neti pot is simple. You can buy them online or at your local drugstore (try the . , which has lots of great reviews . ). First, fill the pot with a mixture of salt and warm water (you can buy premeasured kits or . ). Then tilt your head to the side and pour the solution in one nostril until it flows out the other, repeating the process on the opposite side. (Important note: Use boiled or distilled water only, as tap water can introduce .  into your system.). Prepackaged .  ($6; . ) function much like Neti pots, but some allergy sufferers may find them easier to use. Sprays deliver saline solution a bit more gently and evenly, whereas pots can sometimes be a little "sloppy," says Robert Graham, MD, an internist and integrative medicine specialist at Lenox Hill Hospital, in New York City.. Saline sprays should provide comparable results. Although Neti pots have been . , and in some cases may prove more effective, sprays too have been shown to help with allergy symptoms and other sinus problems.. Eating honey produced by bees in your region may help relieve allergies. The bees transfer pollen from flower blossoms to honey, so if you eat a little honey every day you'll gradually become inoculated against the irritating effects of pollen.. That's the widely held theory, anyway. Unfortunately, there's little to no scientific evidence to back it up. Although a small 2011 .  from Finland that compared regular honey and pollen-laced honey did report modestly encouraging results, an earlier .  in the United States found that unaltered local honey had no impact on allergy symptoms. (Still, it doesn't hurt to try.). High-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters ease symptoms by trapping allergens and other airborne irritants, such as pet dander and dust. .  equipped with HEPA filters can purify the air in bedrooms and other confined spaces, but whole-house systems that incorporate HEPA filters into your home's heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system are . .. Air conditioners and dehumidifiers also can help clean air, Dr. Graham says. They remove moisture from the air and floor, which will curb the growth of the mold and mildew that can worsen allergies.. Want to try a portable filter? We like the Honeywell .  ($153; . ) which helps circulate air five times an hour.. Several herbs and supplements—including spirulina, eyebright, and goldenseal—have been .  for allergy relief. The plant extract butterbur, which is thought to reduce airway inflammation, has produced what are perhaps the strongest results. In a pair of clinical trials led by a Swiss research team, butterbur tablets eased symptoms just as much as the over-the-counter antihistamines .  and . , respectively.. For his part, Dr. Graham suggests his patients first try bromelain, an enzyme found in pineapple that is sometimes used to curb inflammation after sinus surgery. "It reduces swelling and improves breathing," he says. "It's a safe first step.". Anyone who has even been stuffed-up knows the impressive ability of a steaming hot shower to soothe sinuses and clear nasal passages, if only temporarily. But showers offer an added benefit for springtime allergy sufferers. A quick rinse after spending time outdoors can help remove allergens from your skin and hair—and prevent them from spreading to clothes, furniture, pillowcases, and other surfaces where they're likely to dog you.. This is especially true if you've been gardening. The American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology .  stripping off your shoes and clothes and showering immediately if you've been weeding, pruning, or planting.. Don't feel like getting soaked and toweling off every time your sinuses get clogged? Other methods of inhaling steam—. , for instance—can flush out mucus and moisten dry nasal passages nearly as well as a shower.. The easiest method is simply to pour boiling water into a bowl or other container, drape a towel over your head to form a tent, and inhale deeply through your nose for five to 10 minutes. (Just be careful not to get your face too close to the water, as you may scald yourself.) If you find yourself really clogged up, this may be more convenient than taking several showers a day.. The strong, piney aroma of eucalyptus oil can supercharge steam inhalation, helping to open your sinuses and nasal passages further. Some research .  the essential oil, extracted from the leaves of the eucalyptus tree, has anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties, but if nothing else the vapor provides a bracing, menthol-like sensation that can make breathing seem easier.. Try adding a few drops of eucalyptus oil like .  from Healing Solutions ($6; . ) to a bowl of steaming water, or to the floor of the shower before you step in. Just don't swallow the oil or apply it directly to your skin; it's toxic in concentrated amounts.. Many people swear by the sinus-clearing effects of spicy foods like chili peppers, wasabi, Dijon mustard, fresh garlic, and horseradish. Sure enough, an active ingredient in garlic (allyl thiosulfinate) and a similar ingredient in wasabi (isothiocyanates) do appear to have a temporary decongestant effect.. Foods with a kick can definitely start your eyes watering and open your nasal passages, but it's unclear whether they provide anything more than fleeting relief.. Holding your face over a hot cup of tea may open your nasal passages, but the steam isn't the only thing that's beneficial. The menthol in . , for instance, seems to work as a decongestant and expectorant, meaning it can break up mucus and help clear it out of your nose and throat.. Similarly, .  contains a compound (methylated epigallocatechin gallate) that has been shown in .  to have antioxidant properties that inhibit allergic reactions. These results may not necessarily translate into noticeable symptom relief for spring allergy sufferers, however.. If you do have spring allergies, you'll probably want to stay away from chamomile, as it can cause reactions in people allergic to ragweed.