It's no surprise that sweet potatoes are at the top of nearly everyone's healthiest foods list. One baked, medium-sized sweet potato contains 438% of your daily value of vitamin A (a white potato contains 1%), 37% of your vitamin C, and some calcium, . , and iron too. All this at just 105 calories!. What's more, they also deliver 4 grams of dietary . —16% of the daily value—and absolutely zip in terms of fat.. And luckily there are many ways to whip them up. Here are 25 great (even kid-friendly!) sweet potato recipes.. Craving french fries? Whip up these oven-roasted sweet-potato wedges instead. A healthier way to satisfy those cravings, this recipe delivers more taste too, with a kick provided by mustard, garlic, and rosemary. Try them with a dip, as a snack all by themselves, or as a side dish; they pair particularly well with lamb.. This dish is a great way to get more vitamin A and beta carotene. Both the carrots and the sweet potatoes deliver oodles of both, making this recipe particularly good for both your skin and vision.. Pair it with a whole grain baguette for a hearty and satisfying meal.. This lightened-up take on a holiday classic is perfect for the season or really any time you need a hearty and healthy comfort food. The brown sugar and pecan topping will have kids (and adults!) clamoring for more.. To make this dish even healthier, use half-and-half instead of butter to cut down on fat and calories..  should be baked at a high heat, which gives them a crispy, caramelized outside and a soft and tasty inside—no frying necessary!. This peppery dish pairs particularly well with roasted meat, and delivers all of your daily vitamin A along with one-third of your vitamin C.. Cute and tasty, these knot rolls are proof that you can use sweet potatoes in almost anything. What's more, this recipe contains only one-third the calories and fat of traditional knot rolls because of the sweet potatoes' natural sweetness.. Simple and striking, this dish is a perfect complement to summer dishes. Season the wedges and grill for 3 minutes each side (pre-cooking in the microwave helps minimize cooking time).. These fries offer a satisfying crunch along with high levels of vitamins A and C.. Need a healthy and easy dish to throw together any weeknight? These quesadillas fit the bill.. Microwave the sweet potatoes to speed prep time, and top with other healthy ingredients like spinach and red onion. Grilling time is a quick 3 minutes per side, and voila! A meal that appeals to the whole family. Added bonus: The mozzarella alone provides more calcium than a glass of milk.. Time for dessert! Try this sweet treat, which just happens to be rich in protein and fiber too..  uses whole-wheat bread, reduced fat Greek yogurt, and antioxidant-rich honey for a treat that’s healthy and delicious.. Spicy and crisp, these are chips you don’t have to feel guilty about gobbling down. You'll need just five ingredients, and love the kick they deliver thanks to the chili powder and cumin. Pair them with a store-bought light ranch dressing and you've got a tasty and easy snack. At last, a healthy chip-and-dip combo!. It's party time! And what guest wouldn't be happy to see this appetizer? The combination of sweet and spicy (thanks to the chipotle chili powder) will get taste buds going and you'll be thrilled with the speedy prep time.. Other ingredients include low-fat Greek yogurt and whole-wheat pita, for a super healthy dish.. This .  is easy to make, but delivers a complex and nuanced flavor thanks to the fresh ginger, which gives it a kick.. This recipe also offers a trifecta of healthy goodness; it's fat-free, cholesterol-free, and low-cal, to boot.. This hearty meal is the ultimate comfort food, perfect for cool nights or holidays—but it's anything but boring. The lamb, couscous, and chickpeas give it a Moroccan feel and thanks to cumin, curry, and peanut oil, it has a kick too.. Fat-free chicken broth, bell peppers, and onion round out the healthy goodness.. These oven fries get their spicy taste from ground red pepper and paprika, and are super easy to make.. Preheat your pan in the oven with a dab of olive oil, then just pop in the sweet potatoes and wait about half an hour.. Your reward? A crispy and healthy treat to share (or eat all by yourself!). This dish is perfect as a dip, spread, or side dish, and with less than five ingredients, it's easy to make. Just bake the sweet potatoes and mash with curry and Greek-style yogurt.. Season to taste and serve with a garnish of chopped scallions for a simple and hearty meal.. Warm and soothing, these mashed sweet potatoes also deliver healthy pecans and a touch of sweetness, thanks to the maple syrup.. Add in the flavors of cinnamon, cloves, and orange zest and you have a satisfying meal that's fancy enough for a holiday dinner, but simple—and popular!—enough for any weeknight meal.. These aren't your grandma's sweet potatoes. Glazed with unsalted butter, chipotle powder, honey, lime juice, and sea salt, these tubers deliver a spicy glam flavor you won't find in other recipes. You won't be able to get enough of this tasty snack and that's okay—they're good for you!. Sweet potatoes and seafood? Heck yes!. This dish has about as much protein as four slices of turkey breast, but packs more punch in the flavor department thanks to diced kielbasa, shrimp, salsa, reduced-fat sour cream, and cilantro.. Hearty and never boring, this dish will have guests clamoring for seconds.. A traditional favorite, we made these twice-baked potatoes healthier by using reduced-fat sour cream and sharp cheddar cheese instead of milk and butter.. This recipe offers a delicious, smoky flavor thanks to diced Canadian bacon. A traditional kugel is a baked pudding or casserole made from egg noodles and fruit, and it's often so sweet it could be mistaken for a dessert.. This version delivers less sugar, and reduced-fat sour cream helps lowers the fat and calories even more.. Use this recipe to create an entire healthy meal with ingredients like spinach, sliced red onion, and fresh lime juice, in addition to sweet potatoes.. Easy to make, you can roast the potatoes for 25 minutes while cooking the chicken in a skillet (about 5-6 minutes per side).. Serve with spinach and you have a healthy meal in roughly 30 minutes.. This recipe blends sweet maple syrup with savory walnuts for a delicious sweet potato mash. Low in saturated fat and cholesterol, this healthy side dish is destined to be a family favorite.. It doesn't get any easier than this. With just four basic ingredients—including the kosher salt—this recipe is a no-brainer when it comes to finding a healthier substitute for your regular potato side dishes.. All you need to do is put eight small sweet potatoes in the oven, bake, and season with melted maple butter and salt. Yum!. Simple and sweet, this delicious dish is made by roasting cubed, peeled sweet potatoes for 30 minutes then tossing in coarsely chopped onions and baking for 30 more.. When they're ready, broil for 10 minutes to give the dish a delicious caramelized exterior, then just drizzle with butter. Perfection!. This recipe is perfect for those times when you're hankering for something a bit more interesting than traditional pumpkin pie.. This sweet potato pie's yummy goodness is provided by ginger, nutmeg, and maple syrup. Add in the garnish of crunchy pumpkin seeds, and you have a healthy and tasty dessert that's a perfect complement to any meal.. This side dish is definitely more impressive than your average potato salad. It's got mango chutney and cilantro, for a fabulous taste with a tropical feel, in addition to green beans that amp up the antioxidants.. Low in saturated fat and cholesterol, this dish is also much healthier than traditional potato salad.