A light herby pesto is a great way to ring in the summer. As an added plus, you can tweak this dish to accommodate herbs and veggies you have on hand, whether you bought too much at the store or grew more than expected in your garden..  wholewheat farfalle pasta, fresh sugar snap peas, parsley leaves, fresh basil leaves, extra-virgin olive oil, Parmesan cheese, pine nuts, fresh lemon juice, garlic, sea salt, black pepper, multicolored cherry tomatoes, mozzarella pearls.  457.  . Nothing combines eating  and the outdoors like trial mix. This delicious snack just takes all the healthy fats, filling proteins and sweetness of trail mix and rolls it into a cookie. .  unsalted butter, coconut palm sugar, almond butter, eggs, vanilla extract, oat flour, baking powder, ground cinnamon, baking soda, sea salt, trail mix, quick-cooking oats.  190.  . You might not think to combine savory prosciutto with a melon salad, but you definitely should—the salt and fat contrast perfectly with the sweetness of the melon and tart balsamic for a surprisingly fresh summer treat..  cantaloupe cubes, honeydew melon cubes, prosciutto, white balsamic vinegar, black pepper.  54.  . As far as healthy snacks go, hummus is tough to beat. But, this one, made with edamame instead of chickpeas, puts a whole new twist on the dipping classic. .  shelled edamame, olive oil, cilantro, tahini, fresh lemon juice, sea salt, sriracha chili sauce, water, crudités.  187. Strawberries may just be the quickest way to summer up a dish. Balsamic strawberries are a treat all their own, but toss a few in with this blue cheese and spinach salad and it'll be your new favorite summer lunch..  Extra-virgin olive oil, white balsamic, shallot, Dijon mustard, honey, sea salt, black pepper, baby spinach and spring mix blend, fresh strawberries, blue cheese, walnuts.  258.  . Full of sprouts and greens, this turkey wrap is a quick and easy option when packing for a picnic. .  avocado oil mayonnaise, Dijon mustard, whole-wheat wraps, butter lettuce, deli-sliced turkey, havarti cheese slices, tomato, alfalfa sprouts. 325.  . A picnic wouldn't be complete without dessert! As if you needed to be sold on brownies, these fudgy confections mix the molasses flavor of turbinado sugar with the slightly-nutty taste of rye flour. .  bittersweet chocolate baking bar, unsalted butter, eggs, turbinado sugar, light rye flour, unsweetened cocoa, baking powder, sea salt. 249