Have a container of plain or Greek yogurt sitting in your fridge? You may want to give it a closer look. Believe it or not, yogurt isn't just a breakfast food—it can be a delicious addition to your appetizers, main courses, and desserts. Follow these recipes to learn how you can make the most of your yogurt, from whipping up sweet treats like healthy frozen yogurt and yogurt-fruit popsicles, to using it to make savory dinner dishes like Tandoori chicken. Who knew this protein-packed, dairy delight was so versatile?. Bring the flavors of Indian cuisine right to your kitchen with this Tandoori chicken recipe. Packed with flavorful spices like coriander, garlic, cumin, and antioxidant-filled . , this chicken dish is anything but boring. At only 192 calories per serving, you can enjoy this meal without all the added fat and salt of your favorite Indian takeout.. Plain yogurt, garlic, cumin, paprika, ginger, lime zest, coriander, turmeric, chicken breasts, lime wedges. 192. These mini pies get their sweetness from fruit (dates, blueberries, and nectarines) and just a touch of honey, making them the perfect low-calorie sweet treat. Bonus: The whole-milk yogurt in this recipe adds 96 mg of calcium, which you might not normally get with your typical after-dinner dessert..  Pitted dates, toasted almonds, almond butter, blueberries, nectarine, plain whole-milk yogurt, honey.  216. Give classic Ranch salad dressing or dip a healthy makeover with this yogurt-based version. Swapping out cream for yogurt makes this recipe low in saturated fat, while Dijon mustard and plenty of spices still add that zesty Ranch flavor you crave. Dip raw veggies in the dip, or drizzle over greens for a tasty salad.. Yogurt, olive oil, chives, parsley, Dijon mustard, lemon juice, onion powder, garlic powder, black pepper, salt. 36. Take barbecue skewers to a whole new level with these curry-flavored chicken breasts. Marinated in a rich yogurt, lime, and curry marinade, these chicken bites are the perfect mix of zesty and savory. This dish also rich in vitamins A, C, and K, along with anti-inflammatory flavonoids.. Zucchini, grape tomatoes, chicken breasts, salt, pepper, Greek yogurt, lime juice, olive oil, curry powder, parsley. 335. Indulge in fruity, creamy goodness with this frozen yogurt recipe.The berry jam topping consists of only three ingredients, while the frozen yogurt only has four—so you can satisfy your sweet tooth without all the extra preservatives and sugars in your typical ice cream pint. . Mxed berries, white balsamic vinegar, vanilla extract, honey, half-and-half, yogurt. 186.  . This low-calorie dip is packed with protein, thanks to ingredients like Greek yogurt and walnuts. .  Extra-virgin olive oil, cumin seeds, garlic clove, cucumber, walnuts, fresh lemon juice, plain reduced-fat (2%) Greek yogurt, kosher salt, black pepper.  97. This recipe combines fresh cucumber and creamy yogurt for a savory dip you can pair with anything (from whole wheat crackers and pita bread to your favorite raw vegetables). Plus, it's simple and quick to prepare. Just chop and drain a cucumber and fold it into plain low-fat yogurt with garlic cloves and mint for a snack that's low in cholesterol and saturated fat.. Yogurt, garlic, mint, olive oil, salt, English cucumber. 48. Dig in to this refreshing dip: avocados are high in healthy monounsaturated fats—the healthy, good-for-your-heart kind! This recipe takes only 5 minutes to make, too. Just slice up an avocado and combine with Greek yogurt, lime juice, mint, and olive oil..  Avocado, peeled, pitted, plain reduced-fat Greek yogurt, fresh lime juice, kosher salt, mint leaves, divided, pistachio oil or extra-virgin olive oil.  85.  . This mouth-watering dip is full of savory flavor from the nutmeg, Greek yogurt, and Worcestershire sauce. Dip in veggies or pita chips for a delicious appetizer or snack..  Extra-virgin olive oil, onions, sugar, kosher salt, black pepper, plain reduced-fat (2%) Greek yogurt, nutmeg, sherry or red-wine vinegar, Worcestershire sauce.  85. Believe it or not, a little bit of vodka makes this healthier fro-yo easier to scoop, thanks to its alcohol content and ultra-low freezing point..  Plain whole or reduced-fat (2%) Greek yogurt, sugar, vodka, raspberries.  211.  . If you haven't tried Labneh yet, trust us: you're missing out. It's popular in the Middle East, and is delicious spread on a bagel as a guilt-free swap for cream cheese..  Plain reduced-fat (2%) Greek yogurt, kosher salt, extra-virgin olive oil, oregano leaves.  106.  . Indulge in this carrot loaf cake for a sweet (but not .  sweet) afternoon pick-me-up..  Cooking spray, all-purpose flour, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, salt, sugar, plain reduced-fat (2%) Greek yogurt, vegetable oil, eggs, fresh ginger, carrots, confectioner’s sugar.  265.  . This yogurt pop is the perfect combination of tangy and sweet, and is a healthier alternative to other frozen treats. .  Orange-juice concentrate, sugar, plain reduced-fat (2%) Greek yogurt, pure vanilla extract, salt.  107. The healthy swaps in this meal make what you think would be a serious carb-fest into a surprisingly healthy breakfast that’s high in antioxidants, protein, and fiber. .  Old-fashioned rolled oats, cottage cheese, eggs, vanilla extract, blueberries, Greek-style low-fat yogurt, maple syrup. 410