Chicken is a quick and healthy way to get dinner on the table, but there are only so many grilled chicken breasts you can eat before your taste buds beg for something else. To keep chicken interesting, and keep you from ditching this super-healthy food, we’ve rounded up the best good-for-you chicken recipes out there.. These go-to recipes lighten traditional American, Italian, French, Japanese, . , and Thai poultry dishes so that you have something quick to whip up for dinner. From chicken tacos to peanut noodles with chicken, you’ll relish every bite of these protein-packed meals. Even better, these recipes are tried and tested so that they are easy to make, even when you are on the go. Getting creative in the kitchen doesn’t mean that you have to sacrifice your time and energy!. Each one of these meals is low in calories so you can indulge with no worries. Whether you try them out for lunch or dinner, the protein you’ll get from these recipes will satisfy your appetite. These unique takes on these classic dishes make this healthy fuel so much more enjoyable, pick the recipes you want to add to your wheelhouse and get cookin’!. This easy chicken recipe is perfect for those busy weeknights. Throw some mushrooms, herbs, and delicious butternut squash into a skillet with some gnocchi and you'll have a hearty classic dish ready to eat in less than 20 minutes. .  Oliv oil, boneless chicken thighs, butternut squash, cremini mushrooms, yellow onion, cloves, potato gnocchi, chicken broth, fresh sage, baby spinach, pesto, white wine vinegar, Parmesan cheese. 488. Turmeric gets a lot of buzz for its many health benefits, from fighting inflammation to its anti-viral properties. Pair the spice-rubbed chicken with farro, the ancient grain that boasts a slew of nutrients like protein, fiber, and magnesium, for an extra helping of superfood..  Chicken broth, farro, lemon, chicken breasts, ground cumin, turmeric, sea salt, black pepper, olive oil, roasted unsalted cashews, parsley, sour cream.  472. Curry, ginger, and lemongrass join forces to pack a ton of flavor into this Thai-inspired chicken dish. . Olive oil, red bell pepper, shallot, lemongrass, fresh ginger, red curry paste, chicken broth, coconut cream, sea salt, baby bok choy, chicken breasts, black pepper, microwavable jasmine rice, basil leaves, lime wedges.  470. This refreshing salad strikes all the classic Mediterranean notes with feta, olives, and pita chips for texture. And with chickpeas and lean chicken, it offers a hearty serving of protein that will keep you full longer..  Olive oil, red wine vinegar, honey, fresh oregano, sea salt, black pepper, garlic, romaine lettuce, rotisserie chicken, cucumber, chickpeas, roasted red bell pepper, Kalamata olives, whole-wheat pita chips, feta cheese. 422. This chicken dish is as quick as it is tasty—all you need is 10 minutes and a skillet. Chicken, lemon, and white wine are a classic combo, especially when you throw in some fresh broccoli..  Chicken breast cutlets, black pepper, sea salt, all-purpose flour, olive oil, broccoli florets, white wine, chicken broth, capers, lemon, unsalted butter, parsley. 328. This dish only takes 20 minutes to prepare, but packs a major punch of tropical flavor. .  Fresh thyme, ground allspice, cayenne pepper, ground ginger, olive oil, sea salt, chicken drumsticks, lime, honey, mango, jicama, red cabbage, scallions. 407. The dish serves up a good mix of nutrients to help keep you satiated long after your meal. The grilled, skinless chicken serves as a perfect source of low-fat protein; while fresh fruits and veggies (like blood or navel oranges, crisp cucumbers, and romaine) add filling fiber, and the walnuts, and extra virgin .  in the dressing add a healthy dose of good-for-you fats.. Walnuts, blood or naval oranges, English cucumber, kosher salt, freshly ground black pepper, sherry or red wine vinegar, extra-virgin olive oil, cooking spray, skinless boneless chicken breast halves, romaine lettuce, minced fresh chives.  244. This slow-cooker chicken recipe is a lifesaver: It takes just 15 minutes to prep, and the simple ingredients make it a nutritional powerhouse. The chicken is a good source of protein, while the leeks contain vitamins K, A, C along with manganese, copper, iron, and folate.. Baby new potatoes, skinless bone-in chicken thighs, leeks, dry white wine, kosher salt, frozen peas, whole milk, low-fat Greek-style yogurt, fresh tarragon.  512. It's all too easy to pick up food from a Chinese restaurant after a long day. That's why we created this recipe: It's fast and easy to make, and it's a lot healthier than the takeout version. Reduced-sodium soy sauce is mixed with ginger and just one tablespoon each of honey and sesame oil to make a low-calorie coating for the chicken. Add to that vibrant veggies like green beans, cauliflower, and yellow bell peppers, and your plate gets a colorful kick that’s full of important nutrients.. Reduced-sodium soy sauce, honey, sesame oil, crushed red pepper, canola oil, fresh ginger, yellow bell pepper, cauliflower florets, green beans, sesame seeds.  333.  . Use kale to get an added nutrient boost in your salad—but don't toss those stems. Chop, place in a heavy plastic bag and freeze. Add the pieces to your next batch of vegetable soup.. Lacinto kale, fresh lemon juice, freshly ground black pepper, buttermilk, extra-virgin olive oil, pecorino Romano, Worcestershire sauce, garlic, panko, chopped fresh rosemary, egg, artichoke hearts, boneless skinless chicken breasts, red onion.  343. This recipe calls for broccoli slaw, but if you can't find it at the supermarket, opt for cabbage slaw mix for a similar texture and taste..  Avocado oil, fresh lime juice, honey, sambal oelek, broccoli slaw, kosher salt, round rice paper sheets, avocado wedges, mango wedges, boneless skinless rotisserie chicken breast, cilantro sprigs. 353. These chicken lettuce wraps make lovely finger foods. To serve as an appetizer, not dinner, opt for the smaller, inner bibb lettuce leaves.. Fresh orange juice, white wine vinegar, honey, fresh garlic, crushed red pepper, kosher salt, shredded boneless skinless rotisserie chicken breast, Bibb lettuce leaves, julienne-cut daikon radish, julienne-cut English cucumber, dry-roasted peanuts, lime wedges. 275. Garlic and spices give the meat big flavor without tons of added fat and salt.. Thin carrots, olive oil, cumin, freshly ground black pepper, cider vinegar, chili powder, garlic, whole chicken, onion, lemon, low-sodium chicken broth.  270. Lunch or dinner is made easy, thanks to store-bought rotisserie chicken breast. The homemade .  is super-satisfying, but still lower in calories than many store-bought dressings. . Buttermilk, fresh tarragon, fresh dill, fresh chives, olive oil mayonnaise, white wine vinegar, fresh garlic, kosher salt, baby kale, thinly sliced radicchio, thinly sliced radish, shredded boneless skinless rotisserie chicken breast, salted roasted pistachios.  256. Though dark cuts like thighs are higher in fat than white meat, they also have more iron and zinc.. Red wine vinegar, honey, salt, red onion, frozen peas, avocado, chopped cilantro, fresh lime juice, chopped seeded jalapeno, garlic, cumin, olive oil, chili powder, skinless chicken thighs, corn tortillas, napa cabbage, sour cream, hot sauce, radishes (optional).  377.  . Tip: This dish is just as delicious if you trade the pasta for a cooked whole grain—think farro or barley.. Scallions, cilantro, olive oil, garlic, sherry or red wine vinegar, smoked paprika, honey, salt, freshly ground black pepper, skinless chicken breast halves, skinless chicken thighs, snow peas, sugar snap peas, fregola pasta, sliced radishes.  307. Quick-pickled cucumbers are a fresh foil to rich peanut sauce. You can mix in other vegetables as well, such as shredded carrots and thinly sliced jicama.. Low-sodium soy sauce, fresh lime juice, olive oil, fish sauce, curry powder, grated fresh ginger, turmeric, garlic, chicken tenders, honey, seasoned rice vinegar, crushed red pepper flakes, English cucumber, unsalted peanuts, cilantro, lime wedges (for serving), cooked rice (optional).  461.  . Red bell peppers are a good source of lycopene, an antioxidant pigment that may help ward off stroke and some types of cancer.. Balsamic vinegar, extra-virgin olive oil, garlic, fresh oregano, ground black pepper, chicken cutlets, red bell peppers, romaine hearts, ricotta salata or Parmesan.  449. Whip up the taste of takeout in your kitchen with this easy Asian dish..  Fettuccine, chicken breasts, red bell pepper, dark sesame oil, garlic, ginger, peanut butter, hoisin sauce, rice wine vinegar, Asian chile sauce, green onions, cilantro.  501. This amazing chicken recipe .  .  calories, helping you to slim down faster. Plus, it only takes 5 minutes to make!.  Chicken cutlets, salt, pepper, olive oil, frozen baby lima beans, corn, grape tomatoes, grated Parmesan, fresh basil, lemon wedges.  378. The yogurt creates a creamy coating while the saffron adds plenty of flavor and a distinctive yellow color..  Greek yogurt, saffron threads, garlic, chicken breast halves.  350. The pesto adds a rich flavor (and heart-healthy fats) to this crunchy chicken salad..  Low-fat mayo, pesto, lemon juice, chicken breast, English cucumber, grape tomatoes, whole-grain bread, alfalfa sprouts.  328. This salad recipe may sound ordinary, but there's fresh produce and flavorful goat cheese in every bite..  Chicken cutlets, salt, pepper, olive oil, frozen baby lima beans, corn, grape tomatoes, grated Parmesan, fresh basil, lemon wedges.  305. Get a sophisticated look and plenty of flavor with only five ingredients..  Chicken breasts, low-fat cream cheese, picante sauce, cilantro, Italian-seasoned breadcrumbs.  257. For a power snack, you can't do much better than this easy chicken sandwich packed with veggies..  Baby spinach, cooked chicken, sliced red bell pepper, low-fat Italian vinaigrette, whole-grain pita.  400. This light pasta dish adds a splash of citrus for a surprisingly tangy taste..  Whole-wheat penne, broccoli rabe, olive oil, garlic, crushed red pepper, rotisserie chicken, preserved lemon, Parmesan cheese.  424. This hearty dish is a lighter version of the traditional Mexican breakfast favorite..  Onion, garlic, cooked chicken breast, black beans, chicken broth, salsa, corn tortillas, queso blanco.  293. This protein-packed dish includes plenty of fiber-rich veggies and a spicy kick..  Frozen chicken breasts, soba noodles, hoisin sauce, reduced-sodium soy sauce, sriracha (hot chile sauce), spicy hot mustard, shredded carrots, sliced scallions, dry roasted peanuts.  512. A Mexican-inspired way to add spice to your chicken..  Dijon mustard, chicken breast halves, salsa, lime juice, avocado, green onion.  177. Make your life easier by buying a rotisserie chicken from the deli counter and using it in this French recipe. You'll save time without compromising the calorie count..  Butter, onion, garlic, portobello mushroom caps, dry white wine, chicken broth, thyme, roasted chicken breast, French crepes, crème fraîche.  272. This low-fat burger is made spicy with Thai chile paste and rounded out with a sweet, creamy peanut sauce..  Peanut butter, low-sodium soy sauce, dark sesame oil, rice vinegar, garlic, green onions, chile paste, ginger, chicken breast, sandwich rolls, onion or alfalfa sprouts.  341. Leave greasy pizza to Domino's and make this fresh pizza that combines the tangy taste of goat cheese with fresh basil and seasonal veggies..  Whole-wheat pizza dough, portobello mushrooms, pesto, rotisserie chicken, sweet corn, goat cheese, fresh basil.  395. Olive oil and red wine create an Italian flavor for this simple chicken and vegetable dish. Serve it over whole-grain pasta to round out the meal..  Olive oil, chicken breasts, green bell pepper, cremini mushrooms, dry red wine, tomato-and-basil pasta sauce, fresh parsley.  250. Craving chicken parmesan? Try our healthier version of the family favorite, which we've streamlined so you can get it on the table in less than 30 minutes..  Chicken breasts, breadcrumbs, Parmesan cheese, oregano, an egg, low-fat mozzarella cheese, marinara sauce.  332. We lighten this restaurant favorite wrap recipe, so you'll get a traditional Thai flavor for less than 400 calories..  Chicken breasts, cucumber, cilantro, whole-wheat tortillas, satay peanut sauce.  385. White beans and chicken pack this hearty stew with more than 40 grams of protein and 17 grams of fiber..  Onion, cumin, Great Northern beans, chicken broth, chipotle chiles, chicken breast, cilantro.  431. Upgrade your usual grilled chicken with a zesty lemon and olive mixture. This quick chicken breast recipe is served with a side of Mediterranean couscous salad, bursting with kalamata and pimiento-stuffed olives, basil, and more lemon juice. If you’d like to keep the sodium low in this dish, be sure to boil the couscous in water instead of chicken broth. Regardless, it’s sure to please your taste buds..  Cooking spray, boneless chicken breasts, lemon rind, honey mustard, fat-free less-sodium chicken broth, whole-wheat couscous, pimiento-stuffed olives, pitted kalamata olives, fresh basil, fresh lemon juice, olive oil, pepper. 318. This is one of the simplest and tastiest healthy chicken breast recipes you can make. It packs servings of broccoli and Brussels sprouts which are loaded with cancer-preventing phytonutrients. Plus, this slimming meal also includes plenty of potassium, which will keep your blood pressure at a healthy level..  Boneless skinless chicken breasts, kosher salt, broccoli stems, olive oil, fresh lemon juice, freshly ground black pepper, Brussels sprouts, celery stalks, toasted hazelnuts, flat-leaf parsley, Parmesan cheese. 309