Fallout from the Susan G. Komen for the Cure Foundation's controversial and short-lived decision to halt funding for Planned Parenthood projects appears to still be piling up.. The group is pulling the plug on three-day events featuring fundraising walks in Washington, D.C., and six other cities in 2014. .  .  on the change Tuesday.. The difficult decision was not made lightly, as this bold and empowering event has touched the lives of thousands of participants," the group said in a statement emailed to Shots. "Economic uncertainty over the past four years have presented challenges for all nonprofits, and have affected participation levels for the 3-Day as well.". The group said that "participation levels the last four years have made it difficult to financially sustain an event of this magnitude in 14 cities.". The three-day walks, for a total of 60 miles, will continue in Atlanta, Dallas-Fort Worth, Michigan, Philadelphia, San Diego, Seattle and Minneapolis-St.Paul, in 2014. A spokeswoman for Komen said in an email that the group's Global Race, an annual 5-kilometer event held over Mother's Day weekend in Washington, is unaffected.. While Komen has attributed the drop in participation, in part, to a crummy economy, it's clear the organization underestimated the reaction to its decision in early 2012 to .  for breast cancer screening by Planned Parenthood.. At the time, Komen said it was cutting its support for Planned Parenthood because of a new Komen policy forbidding grants to organizations under official investigation. A House committee .  an inquiry into Planned Parenthood's finances in late 2011.. After a few days, the Komen foundation changed course. In an apology, Komen founder and CEO Nancy Brinker said:. But a few months later, it was obvious that that the annual Washington Race for the Cure had taken a hit, with a . .. About 21,000 people were in the Washington race held this May, the .  reported. That's about the same number as the year before, and far below the nearly 40,000 who participated in 2011.