Hot summer days call for refreshing drinks. Whip up these family- and figure-friendly summer beverages for a sweet way to cool down. Light, bright and refreshing, they're just what you'll want in your glass when the weather heats up..  . Ginger beer and jalapeño join forces for a tropical drink with a kick, and it's as good to warm you up on a cool fall day as it is refreshing on those long summer evenings. .  fresh lime juice, jalapeño, crushed ice, naturally sweetened ginger beer, club soda.  32.  . Whether it's the last sprigs leftover from meal prep or you just had a great season in your home garden, this tasty drink is a great way to put that unused basil to work before it wilts. .  fresh strawberries, fresh basil leaves, honey, lemon kombucha, ice cubes.  44.  . While this refreshing concoction may be also be great with a splash (or two!) of gin, it's just as amazing served as a mocktail. .  elderflower tonic water, fresh grapefruit juice, fresh lime juice, club soda, ice cubes, lime wedges.  40. So sweet! You'll need about 8 medium fresh peaches to get the 6 cups of slices in this recipe.. Honey, fresh thyme, fresh or frozen peach slices, black tea bags, lemon juice, bourbon (optional), thyme sprigs and lemon slices for garnish. 168. Did you know? Watermelon is 92 percent water (hence the name!), so it's super hydrating.. Seedless watermelon cubes, fresh lime juice, honey, jalapeño, silver tequila (optional), mint sprigs and watermelon wedge for garnish.  126. If you don't care for the licorice taste of fennel, omit it and add another cucumber..  Cucumbers, large fennel bulb, club soda, honey, fresh lemon juice, sea salt, limoncello (optional), lemon-peel strips and small fennel fronds for garnish. 75. Buzz fiber-rich berries up in the blender for a refreshing Mexican-style agua fresca.. 
                  . 
                  .  Strawberries, blueberries, ice, water, limes, agave nectar, fresh mint. 
                  . 
                  .  294 (approximate). Get that same crisp taste as store-bought versions (and half the calories) with this simple recipe. Combining a simple syrup made with fresh ginger and club soda will satisfy even the strongest soda craving..  Sugar, ginger, water, club soda, candied ginger pieces.  72. Raspberries will add just the slightest tangy flavor to the tart lemonade. If you’re looking for a sweeter flavor, use strawberries instead..  Lemon juice, sugar, raspberry purée, ice cubes.  114. Quench your thirst with this simple drink. At under 50 calories, it makes a light addition to any . ..  Watermelon, basil leaves, sea salt, white wine vinegar, water.  46. This lemonade really packs a punch with the combination of sour lemon juice and tart pomegranate juice. Plus making homemade lemonade means you control the sugar..  Sugar, lemon juice, pomegranate juice, water, ice.  75. This tart alternative to lemonade is absolutely delicious with a . . Plus, at a little over 100 calories per serving, this drink is much more diet-friendly than a margarita..  Water, sugar, lime rind, lime juice, ice water.  106 (for 8 ounces). Tea is a low-cal (and antioxidant-packed) way to cool down. And adding fresh peaches provides a refreshing fruity flavor..  Sugar, lemon juice, warm water, hibiscus tea bags, peaches, cold water.  115. Fruit, sparkling water, and fresh mint leaves make this slushy incredibly refreshing.. Honeydew, sparkling water, mint, lime juice, raw honey, salt. Fresh ginger gives this fruity slushy unexpected flavor.. Frozen mango chunks, fresh pineapple chunks, sparkling water, fresh ginger, raw honey, pinch of salt. If you like strawberry daiquiris, you'll love this healthier mocktail version. Fresh lemon juice, frozen strawberries, and raw honey give the summer drink subtle sweetness without being too overpowering.. Frozen strawberries, sparkling water, fresh lemon juice, vanilla extract, raw honey, pinch of salt. Turn sweet summer fruit into a refreshing homemade slushy with this easy-to-make, five-ingredient recipe..  Frozen peach wedges, sparkling water, orange juice, raw honey, pinch of salt