• There were , , according the , . The U.S. Census reports that there's , . The U.S. birthrate dropped to the lowest number ever recorded in 2011, including a major dip in births to immigrant women, ,  said. , • U.S. state laws require birth certificates to be completed for all births, and federal law mandates national collection and publication of births and other vital statistics data. , must be registered within 42 days of a child's birth., • Each year, some 15 million babies in the world -- more than one in 10 births -- are born ,  and at least a million of those children die, according to a , compiled by the March of Dimes Foundation, Save the Children, The Partnership for Maternal, Newborn & Child Health, and the WHO. Experts representing 40 of the United Nations said that inexpensive treatment and prevention methods are available. , • It's not just low income countries that have high numbers of preterm babies, the report states. Brazil and the United States rank among the top. One in nine U.S. births is preterm. India, China and Pakistan are also on the list; the United Kingdom is not., • The average life expectancy of a U.S.-born child is 78.7 years. Globally, the average life expectancy for current newborns is about 70, according to the , . In low income countries the average life expectancy, WHO says, hovers around 60., • In 2012, Jacob and Sophia topped baby name choices in the United States, followed by Mason and Emma. Baby-naming website , , which claims to have a 50,000 name database, said some parents are going the less traditional route with Imogen for girls and Asher for boys. The site names several stand-out international baby names, including  Aziza, Cai and Eluned. In England and Wales,, ., • The ,  that every day approximately 800 women die from preventable causes related to pregnancy and childbirth. Nearly all of those maternal deaths happen in developing countries, as mothers face a higher risk in rural and poor communities. , • But, there's good news. Between 1990 and 2010, the WHO found, maternal mortality worldwide , . For example, a number of countries in ,  their levels of maternal mortality between 1990 and 2010. But more than half of the world's maternal deaths happen in sub-Saharan Africa and almost one-third occur in South Asia, the organization found.