The Oct. 1 launch of the new .  is now less than two months away, and people are starting to pay attention to the changes these new marketplaces may bring to the nation's health care system.. We know it's confusing, so we're spending part of the summer and fall answering at least some of your questions about the law. You can see earlier pieces in our series .  and . .. Today we're answering questions regarding two of the more frequent topics raised: student health plans and possible penalties for failing to obtain health insurance.. The first thing students need to know is that if they DO have student insurance through their college or university, that's been .  that individuals have health insurance starting in 2014. There was a question about that for a while, and it's been answered.. Then there's the question of what happens if you can't afford the insurance your school offers or what to do if your school doesn't offer coverage.. First, if you're a full-time student and you're not working, or if you're working just part-time, you probably don't earn enough to trigger the requirement to have health insurance. It applies only to people who . ; that's just under $10,000 this year for a single person under age 65.. What if you DO want health insurance? One popular part of the law lets .  plans until they turn 26. And in states that opt to expand Medicaid, that's an option for college and graduate students that hasn't been available before. It's for people who earn up to 133 percent of poverty, or about . . But so far .  are planning to expand Medicaid.. Another issue that sparked a lot of interest was the possibility of penalties for NOT having health insurance.. The penalty for not having health insurance is, at least for 2014, is $95 or 1 percent of your taxable income — whichever is greater. It . , eventually to a maximum of 2.5 percent of taxable income.. It's assessed, if you owe it, on your 2014 income tax form that's due April 15, 2015. And that's how the government finds you — it asks on your income tax form if you had health insurance. People who have it will get some sort of certificate of coverage from their health insurers. And a reminder — you can't go to jail for not paying the penalty; the government can't even garnish your wages. The most the IRS can do is withhold your tax refund. See the answer to the last question in this . .. And one final, penalty-related question:. It depends on how you define the word penalty. Seriously.. From the government — no. To reiterate, pretty much all employer insurance counts as coverage for purposes . . Take your own, take your spouse's. It doesn't matter.. Some companies, however, (and this is something that pre-dates the Affordable Care Act) .  if an employee's spouse (who doesn't work for the same firm) has coverage available from his or her own job. The theory is that the company doesn't want to be providing benefits to another company's employee. But however you make the calculation that's best for your family, it doesn't matter for purposes of the health law.. .