The study, published Wednesday in the journal Neurology, is an exercise in health economics that seeks to generate a fuller picture of a disease's cost. That calculation gives insurers, hospital administrators and public health officials a better -- and hopefully more humane -- basis for deciding which treatments are most "cost-effective.". If a treatment for stroke -- the costly administration of the clot buster called tissue plasminogen activator, or tPA, for instance -- saves people from dying when properly used (as it does), that's a plus. But if it also reduces disability and allows more stroke patients to return to fuller function than they would have without it, that's even better. The treatment has not only added years to life, it has added life to years, and that makes it a better treatment.. So what, on the other side of the ledger, does stroke cost? The authors of the latest research followed for five years 440 patients who had arrived at a hospital in Britain suffering from a first TIA and 748 patients who were diagnosed as having had a full-on stroke for the first time.. They found that in the five years after the event, patients who suffered their first stroke lost, on average, 1.71 years due to early death and 1.08 years due to reduced quality of life. If the stroke had never happened, the patient would have had, in principle, five good years; the stroke, by this measure, robbed him or her of 2.79 years, leaving 2.21 good years.. The severity of the stroke obviously resulted in differences within this broad group. Patients judged to have had a mild stroke lost 2.16 quality-years; those who suffered a moderate stroke lost 3.35 good years; severe stroke victims forfeited 4.3 good years.. Patients who suffered their first transient ischemic attack fared better, on average: They lost an average of 0.71 of the next five years to early death, the researchers found. But the patients assessed that over the five years following their TIA, their lost quality of life equaled almost a full good year (or, 0.97 years, to be exact). The result was that their TIA left them 3.32 of the five good years they might otherwise have expected.. Finally, in stroke, physicians emphasize that "time is brain": the quicker you recognize the . , and the faster you get to a hospital, the more you stand to claim of the five good years ahead. Don't drive to the hospital or let someone else take you. Call 911.