The Food and Drug Administration has a mystery on its hands.. Thousands of dogs and at least 10 cats have become sick after eating various forms of jerky for pets over the past few years. Some 580 animals have died, the agency says. But it's not sure why.. Some of the cases have been diagnosed as "kidney failure, gastrointestinal bleeding, and a rare kidney disorder," the agency . . Overall, a little less than two-thirds of the cases have been some kind of gastrointestinal illness. Nearly a third have "involved kidney and urinary systems.". The FDA released a summary of complaints potentially tied to jerky treats, including . . Here's an unedited example involving a 3-year-old . :. In the FDA's search for answers, the agency has run lots of tests on various jerkies, tenders and strips made with chicken, duck, sweet potato, dried fruit and combinations of those ingredients. "To date, none of the tests have revealed the cause of the illnesses," the agency . .. What should pet owners be on guard for? Loss of appetite, listlessness, vomiting, diarrhea (sometimes bloody), drinking a lot more water and also increased urination. See a veterinarian if you suspect a problem.. The investigation has focused on products imported from China. "We still are extensively testing treats for a number of things," FDA's Martine Hartogensis, a deputy director at the FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine, . . "We do seem to be getting some leads, but we still have a little bit of a ways to go." (The detailed testing report is . .). The FDA wants your help. "If you have a dog or cat that became ill after eating jerky pet treats, the Food and Drug Administration would like to hear from you or your veterinarian," the agency said in a statement posted to its website Tuesday. You can report information to the FDA . .. In late 2011, FDA warned pet owners about a potential problem with chicken jerky products for dogs. Many dog owners and vets complained to the agency about illnesses that appeared to be associated with jerky. There were other FDA warnings dating back to 2007.. "Our fervent hope as animal lovers is that we will soon find the cause of — and put a stop to — these illnesses," . , director of the FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine, said on the agency's website.