A year ago, public health officials were scrambling to figure out why people across the country were suddenly coming down with life-threatening cases of meningitis.. The outbreak eventually was traced back to contaminated steroids produced by the New England Compounding Center. All told, 751 people contracted .  and other infections from the tainted shots; 64 died.. And it's not over. Some people are still undergoing treatment, and others who thought they were cured have relapsed and are once again fighting infection.. To get up to date, Shots talked with . , section chief for infectious disease at the Carilion Clinic in Roanoke, Va., a hospital where 36 patients have been treated. Two of them had strokes and died almost immediately. A third person died after 101 days of treatment.. Kerkering, an expert on fungal infections, was a co-author of .  of . papers published in last week's .  on the outbreak. This is an edited version of the conversation.. Fungal infections are hard to treat. That's due to the drugs we have, the mechanisms of how the drugs work on the fungus, and our own immune systems. Then there aren't drugs that reach high levels in the central nervous system. And the central nervous system is a much more severe place to be infected than the lungs, for example.. We made the decision that we would treat for 30 more days after the spinal fluid was normal, and then to follow up we would do .  at one month, three months and six months after completing therapy. We have a few more patients who are awaiting their six month lumbar puncture in November. And we still have two patients on therapy a year later.. Not yet. Did they have a second form of fungus, or does the organism just hang out in places that the medication didn't get to and we didn't treat enough? I don't know if any of us have the answers.. I don't think the public has an idea of all the things that the .  went through. Of course they had headaches and fevers and didn't feel well at all at first. But then some did have strokes. They needed rehabilitation and physical therapy for that. Some of them developed something that we call . . That leads to urinary retention and a whole lot of back pain. The patients were pretty miserable.. And remember these patients all had back problems to begin with. Then they got their shots and they get fungus and we treat them through all that misery, and they get back to where they were originally — they still have back pain. Some have gone on to have surgery and have done very well and have not relapsed. The patients were really troupers on this.. Challenge is too harsh a word, but patients need to ask their doctors, do I really need this? Even with modern medicine, nothing is risk-free.