 , Many people believe that because bottled water goes through a filtration process that improves its taste, odor and color, it's also healthier for you. Filtration eliminates possible contaminants such as lead, parasites and byproducts of chlorine, so it's gotta be better, right?, Well, not really. "While (filters) can reduce exposure to (harmful) elements, it doesn't necessarily mean bottled water will be better for your overall health," says Katherine Patton, a registered dietician and certified sports dietician. , In the U.S., tap water is already treated to remove particles, chemicals and bacteria. During the process of treating public water, chlorine is added as a disinfectant, and fluoride is added for its dental health benefits (though there are those who say , ).,  was put into place in 1974 to ensure that all drinking water that is ", , whether from above-ground or underground sources," must meet the minimum safety standards established by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. So whether you're drinking water that came from a rural kitchen tap or one in a city restaurant, it should be safe., Well water, however, is more likely to be contaminated since it doesn't go through the same treatment and testing as water for public consumption. If the drinking water in your home comes from a well, filter it or hire a company to test its quality before you drink it., But the water source isn't your only concern: The pipes it flows through matter, too. Lead pipes can leach lead into water, making it harmful to drink (especially for children and pregnant women). If you aren't sure whether or not your pipes are made of lead, have your water tested. , And what about microscopic creepy-crawlies? According to the National Sanitation Foundation website, "bottled water is regulated by the FDA, which has established water-quality requirements similar to those established by the EPA for public water supplies. Bottled water products and public water supplies are , , but the end product should always meet all federal, state or provincial drinking water standards.", Of course, many people buy bottled water for its taste and portability. But if you're buying it because you believe it's safer than tap, you may want to start heading to the sink to fill up your glass. , This article was originally published on , . 