3. ", !", OK, sure. Seems logical. But while each of those answers may be accurate in its own way, there are other, more surprising, factors that have been linked to obesity, too. No one factor is responsible for obesity, and it's often difficult to prove a direct cause-and-effect relationship. But these sneaky-like-a-thief things might be stealing your family's good health:,  ,  It doesn't just hurt your lungs: A 2012 study found that prenatal exposure to ,  (PAHs) in the air made children twice as likely to be , . , The takeaway? If you're pregnant, steer clear of car exhaust and smoke from cigarettes, fireplaces and barbecue grills as much as possible. For more info about PAHs, , .,  The closer you live to sea level, the heavier you're likely to be, found a ,  published in the International Journal of Obesity. In fact, people living at elevations below 1,640 feet were ,  than people living above 9,843 feet. Researchers controlled for things like diet, fitness, temperature, etc.; they think the "increased metabolic demands" of living at high elevations may be behind the phenomenon., The takeaway? If you're livin' low, there's not much you can do to change your altitude (short of moving to the mountains), but... , ? Couldn't hurt!,  ,  According to a 2012 study, there's a correlation between obesity and , . A ,  resulted in similar findings. Researchers believe it might be due to how antibiotics change gut bacteria (more on that below). , The takeaway? Talk with a doctor before giving children antibiotics -- or even taking them yourself. Discuss ways you can normalize your gut bacteria while on antibiotic therapy. ,  A 2013 study found that children with high levels of BPA (a chemical found in lots of plastic products) had ,  -- and earlier research has found the same to be true for adults. , The takeaway? Easy: Limit your exposure to items that contain BPA -- and that means not even touching them, since BPA is , . For a list of common items that contain BPA, ,  -- and beware of buying bottles and sippy cups at garage sales and consignment stores, since they may predate the FDA's 2012 ban of BPA in those products. ,  ,  As one 2012 study points out, ,  -- and the more sedentary you are, , ., The takeaway? If your destination's , , walk. Even if your daily commute is long, you can , , too.,  Salads from several food chains have been found to ,  -- including some that contain sounds-good-for-you grilled chicken. As a result, customers consume way more calories than they'd bargained for, and more calories equals potential weight gain. , The takeaway? Get over the idea that the word "salad" automatically means "healthy." For tips on how to slim down your salads, , .,  Research has found that people whose intestines lack ", " have a higher risk of weight gain. Translation: The more kinds of bacteria you have in your guts, , . , The takeaway? Read up on probiotics, and think of ways you can work them into your regular diet. (Kefir, anyone?)  ,  According to a 2013 study published in Nature, ,  both motivates us to eat and ,  -- a combination that can , . , The takeaway? Come hell or high water, , . (And if you'd like some advice on how to fall asleep faster, , .)