Drug company Novartis is recalling thousands of bottles of Tixylix cough and cold medicines over fears plastic may have got into the medicines.. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) says consumers should return affected bottles to the place of purchase.. Novartis said it had been made aware of a possible fault in the tamper seal.. There is no evidence that anyone has been harmed, but Novartis has set up a helpline on 0800 854 100.. The affected medicines come under 37 different batch numbers and have expiry dates ranging from 01/08/15 to 01/06/16. . The medicines being recalled are:. Consumers are advised to check their products to see if they carry an affected batch number and expiry date.. Novartis Consumer Health has been made aware of a possible fault in the manufacturing process of the tamper seal, which might result in small pieces of plastic being found in the liquid medicines.  . Adam Burgess, the MHRA head of defective medicines reporting centre, said: "This is a precautionary recall and there is currently no evidence that people have had any problems with these medicines. . "If people have bought Tixylix, we ask that they check the batch number on the bottle label next to the expiry date to see if it is one of the batches being recalled. . "If anyone has an affected batch, they should return it to the place of purchase for a refund. . "If people do have any questions they can contact Novartis on 0800 854 100 or visit tixylix.co.uk.". The action by Novartis follows Boots taking the same step last month over its cough and cold medicines. .  and is asking patients to return all batches of specific paracetamol, gripe mixture and cough and cold medicines.. The Novartis and Boots products are made by the same company, which is part of the Boots stable of companies.. The same possible fault in the manufacturing process of the tamper seal, potentially resulting in small pieces of plastic being found in the liquid medicines.  . The Boots products which are included in this latest recall are. Boots is offering customers a refund if they return these medicines.. Anyone with concerns or questions can speak to the healthcare team at their local Boots store or telephone the Boots Customer Care Team on 0800 915 0004.