A 10-year-old girl who was left brain damaged after she was accidentally injected with glue in her brain is to receive a multimillion-pound payout.. Maisha Najeeb was undergoing a treatment which involved injecting glue to block off bleeding blood vessels. . During the procedure at Great Ormond Street Hospital in June 2010, a dye was meant to be injected into an artery in her brain to check her blood flow.. The two syringes got mixed up leading to Maisha getting brain damage. . Judge William Birtles at London's High Court approved a settlement against Great Ormond Street Hospital For Children NHS Trust of a £2.8m lump sum.. The judge said that Maisha, who is now aged 13, would also receive £383,000 a year until she turns 19, which would increase to £423,000 per year for as long as she lives. Some experts expect she will live into her 60s.. Maisha had a rare medical condition, which involved arteries and veins getting tangled, which could result in a bleed, but she was healthy when she entered the London hospital, the High Court heard. . Previously Maisha had successfully received the embolisation treatment, but on this occasion there was no procedure to distinguish between the syringe with glue and the syringe with the harmless dye. . The glue was wrongly injected into an artery to Maisha's brain, causing permanent brain damage, the court heard.. The trust, which admitted liability for Maisha's injuries, apologised unreservedly for the shortcomings in her care. . Neil Block QC, said: "We can't wind the clock back. We hope there are now systems and procedures in place to ensure such a tragic mistake cannot be made again.". He also praised Maisha's parents for engaging with the trust, saying this meant that the hospital could learn from what happened and make improvements.. Maisha's father Sadir, from Ilford, London, said the family were "devastated" by what had happened. . "Her life is ruined. All her dreams have been broken," he said. . "I hope that by bringing this case, lessons will have been learned to avoid this happening to other families.". The compensation will be spent on care and accommodation for Maisha, who needs assistance with all daily tasks, is in a wheelchair and has lost the vast majority of her bodily and cognitive abilities.