Drink-related deaths in Scotland have fallen significantly in the 10 years to 2012, bucking the trend in the rest of the UK.. Figures .  suggested that death rates rose in England (2%) and Wales (15%) over the period. . But in Scotland, they fell by 37% for men and 34% for women. The total also dropped by 8% in Northern Ireland.. Overall drink-related deaths fell by 4.4% across the UK to 8,367.. In all four countries the death rate has declined since the peak of 2007, with . showing a steady drop in the proportion of adults who drank alcohol frequently.. The ONS said: "Despite the fall in alcohol consumption, it is likely it will take a number of years for any resulting reduction in alcohol-related deaths to become apparent. . "This is because diseases associated with excessive alcohol consumption are often slow to develop.. "For example, Alcoholic Liver Disease (ALD) is the most prevalent of all alcohol-related causes of death included in this bulletin and is responsible for approximately 63% of all alcohol-related deaths in England and Wales in 2012.". Dr Evelyn Gillan, chief executive of Alcohol Focus Scotland (AFS), said it was good news that alcohol-related deaths in Scotland had fallen in recent years.. However, she pointed out that 20 people were still dying because of alcohol each week in Scotland.. She said: "We know what preventative action works - making alcohol less affordable, less available, and less visible. . "Minimum unit pricing must be introduced as soon as possible.". The Scottish Parliament has passed legislation to impose a 50p minimum price for a unit of alcohol, but its implementation is stalled pending the conclusion of legal challenges. . In England the alcohol-related death rate was lowest in eastern counties (10.2 per 100,000 population) and highest in the north west (20.7 per 100,000). . The ONS said it was likely that this had largely resulted from regional differences in drinking habits in the past. . The highest proportion of binge drinkers were in the north west (15%) and the lowest in London (8%). 