Children who have repeatedly moved schools may be more likely to develop psychotic-like symptoms as young teenagers, a study has found.. Researchers said children that had moved schools three times or more before the age of 12 were 60% more likely to develop at least one psychotic symptom as young teenagers. . Psychotic traits include hallucinations and delusions, and can be a precursor to psychotic disorders.. The study involved 6,448 children. . Scientists led by Prof Swaran Singh, at the University of Warwick, tracked the movements of children by analysing data from a birth cohort study, which began in 1991. . In the cohort, parents filled in questionnaires every year after their child was born, and their children attended annual assessment clinics, including face-to face interviews, psychological and physical tests.. Children were interviewed at 12 years of age to see if they had experienced any psychotic-like traits in the last six months. . Prof Singh said the study filled a gap in linking school mobility and psychotic traits. . He said: "Our study found that the process of moving schools may itself increase the risk of psychotic symptoms, independent of other factors.. "But additionally, being involved in bullying, sometimes as a consequence of repeated school moves, may exacerbate risk for the individual.". Previous work, he said, had focused on the impact of urban environments, marginalisation, exclusion, coming from a broken family and bullying. . He said he wanted to study school mobility after noticing a link between psychotic symptoms and migrant populations. . He said the traits were not linked to children moving because they were adopted, which could signify an unstable background, as the cohort involved only birth parents.. But he added: "There may be something else going on. We do not know what we do not know. . "Where there is light that we are seeing, there are areas of darkness we have not explored." . He said his next move was to assess the children at age 16, adding 16, 17 and 18 were the "usual ages of onset" for psychosis. . Dr Craig Morgan, senior lecturer at the Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, said the study was "really quite interesting" and "tied in with a fair amount of research". . But he said it was important to remember 80% of cases where psychotic traits were shown did not lead to psychosis.. Prof Gordon Claridge, at the University of Oxford's department of experimental psychology, said: "One might ask why the target children were bullied. . "They might have been inherently 'stranger' in some way and therefore attracted bullying." . Lucie Russell, director of campaigns at YoungMinds said: "Young people need stability and the process of moving school can be traumatic. . "If you are a young person who is already vulnerable then moving school is often the final straw."