This is it. The deadline to sign up for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act this year is March 31. With time running out, the questions about how the health law and the exchanges work keep pouring in. Here are a few more to check out while the clock ticks down.. If you claim your son as a dependent, you'll be responsible for paying .  if he doesn't have health insurance this year. .  is the greater of $95 for every uninsured adult in a tax household or 1 percent of your annual family income over the income threshold that requires you to file a tax return. (.  is $13,050 for a head of household or $20,300 for a married couple filing jointly.).. To qualify for the flat $95 fine, a family's income would have to be quite low. For most families, the 1 percent penalty will apply, says Brian Haile, senior vice president for health policy at Jackson Hewitt Tax Service. In your case, if your modified adjusted gross income is $60,000 and you file as head of household, the penalty would be $470 ($60,000 - $13,050 = $46,950 x 1% = $470).. "We tell people that child could cost a lot more than a spare bedroom," Haile says.. When it comes to core coverage, the plans are the same. The health law .  that all new plans sold in the individual and small group markets must adhere to, no matter where they're sold. All plans have to cover 10 essential health benefits, for example, and limit the maximum amount people .  to $6,350 for single coverage and $12,700 for families in 2014.. But some . . California requires that plans sold on the health insurance exchange also be available elsewhere. A handful of other states also have rules that deal with similar situations regarding plan offerings on and off the exchanges. The purpose is to ensure that plans on the marketplaces — which may draw consumers' interest because they offer premium subsidies — don't attract disproportionate numbers of people with high health care costs.. But insurers may make additional plans available outside the exchange that aren't for sale on it, say experts. Insurance carriers that aren't participating in the state marketplace may sell plans outside it, or insurers may offer plans with somewhat different benefits or broader provider networks than those that are available on the exchange.. In California, for example, online health insurance vendor .  has six Anthem Blue Cross plans and four Kaiser Permanente plans for sale that aren't available on Covered California, the state's exchange, says Carrie McLean, director of customer care at eHealth.. It doesn't. People with incomes up to 250 percent of the federal poverty level (currently $38,775 for a couple) may qualify for cost-sharing subsidies on the health insurance exchanges that reduce their out-of-pocket health care costs, including deductibles, copayments and their annual maximum out-of-pocket limit. The cost-sharing subsidies are only available to people who buy a silver-level plan. (Those with incomes up to 400 percent of poverty may also qualify for premium tax credits.). Health savings accounts can be used . , but they have to be linked to a health plan that meets certain federal standards, including a family deductible of at least $2,500 and an out-of-pocket maximum spending limit of $12,700 in 2014.. If the cost-sharing subsidies would reduce the deductible to below the minimum for HSA-qualified plans, people generally won't be able to contribute to an HSA in those circumstances, according to a Treasury Department spokesperson.. "For purposes of a health savings account, the cost-sharing reduction is considered in determining the deductible of the plan," the spokesperson said. You could, however, consider buying the plan without the cost-sharing subsidies and then be eligible to contribute to an HSA, according to . . (See question 8.)