To get strong, you don't necessarily need a rack of dumbbells. To get flexible, you don't necessarily need a yoga class. The innovative products here will do all that and more, providing an all-in-one stretching, strengthening, posture-improving workout from your living room, or wherever else you happen to be..  The 21-inch rubber-and-plastic club, designed by Bosu Ball inventor David Weck, looks like a giant golf ball on a tee. The ball end of the rotational movement trainer (RMT) is filled with heavy, movable steel shot that, encased in a soft rubber shell, can be safely swung around and slammed onto a wooden floor. Models in 2, 4 and 8 pounds are available. A workout DVD and wall chart are included, with more workouts on YouTube..  It's an effective, motivating and highly natural workout that gets you back to your inner cave man or woman (which was Weck's goal). Twenty-one exercises, which include swinging the club in every direction as well as pounding it into the ground, create a fun and taxing workout that rotates, stretches and strengthens your body, especially your shoulders, as it forces you to coordinate momentum, balance and posture. Using the 4-pound model, I felt increasingly flexible and athletic as the workout progressed and worked up a good (but not messy) sweat. The pounding exercises, done in 20 reps, deliver a lung-heaving interval training effect. Done at home or in group classes, this simple, compact device can benefit everyone from non-exercisers to serious athletes..  None.  $79.95 (2-pound); $89.95 (4-pound); $99.95 (8-pound). .  This on-your-body "portable gym," invented by Dutch national team speed-skater Robbert Boekema, consists of a pair of retractable resistance cords on the hip belt that thread around pulleys located on right and left ankle straps. The resistance can be adjusted with the turn of a dial..  A tremendous workout with exceptional take-anywhere portability. Run or ride with it, and stop every 30 minutes to get in some strength work: You can knock off two birds with one stone. Throw it in your luggage, use it in your TV room. If you're worried that it'll be too easy, as I was, no problem: It has enough resistance for a true strength session. I was thoroughly worked after the 30-minute Total Body Blast workout, which can be downloaded free from the website. You do dozens of upper- and lower-body exercises in this workout: upright flies and bent-over rows, thrusters, swings, lunges, wood chops, mountain climbers, you name it. This is a great product..  Not cheap but worth it. A lower-cost $199 model will be available in June..  $300. .  Two 2.5-pound disks with nine omni-directional castor wheels on the bottoms can be used on feet or hands to do various free-range-of-motion exercises on any smooth, hard floor. Foam kneepad and a DVD are included..  Within seconds, sprawling out horizontally with the rollers on hands or feet deeply engages the core, upper chest, shoulders and butt. Initially, after two or three minutes, I was exhausted. Many movements are possible, starting with mountain climbers, rolling push-ups, in-and-out Supermans, dynamic downward-facing dogs and others — limited only by your creativity. Versatile and easy to use, the compact rollers are easy to stow and carry in a trunk or backpack. Attachments allow use with both feet and hands..  None. $99.95, .  The 20-foot nylon-sheathed elastic ropes have fabric loops at each end to offer heavy resistance..  It provides a taxing workout while allowing more versatility and transportability than a normal non-stretching workout rope. The Beast can wrap around or be clipped to a post, used with a partner or attached to a belt. It can stretch up to three times its length, pulling you (and your partner) while forcing all-body stabilization throughout all movements, including explosive-step running and a large variety of rope throws: inside/outside circles, power slams, squats and jumps squats, stand-to-knee, jumping jacks, and in-and-out waves. Four resistance levels are available, from 47 to 105 pounds, with 77 pounds the most popular..  None.  $149 to $249.99, depending on the resistance. $189 for the 77-pounder. 