 Ever notice that you can start a workout feeling stressed and anxious, and end it feeling good? It isn't in your head. , Or, actually, it is: According to a new,  from Princeton University, exercise appears to change the chemistry of the brain by causing the release of GABA, a neurotransmitter that helps quiet brain activity and minimize anxiety. The study found that people who ran regularly had a low reaction to stressful situations, even if they hadn't run in more than 24 hours.,  ,  can reduce your risk of certain serious health conditions, including heart disease, diabetes and some cancers. It can also decrease your chances of developing -- and getting stuck with -- more common illnesses, such as flus and colds. (According to one recent , , colds lasted 43% longer for people who exercised once a week or less.),  If you're having sleep problems, skip the pills and hit the pool, track or spin studio. , , people who exercised regularly for about 10 weeks reported sleeping better than they had previously. , What exactly does "better" mean? In this case, it translated to dozing off faster and having a decreased need for sleep-promoting medication.,  Women often report feeling irritable and bloated before their periods, but exercise appears to minimize these conditions. In a ,  of nearly 2,000 New Zealand women, researchers found that those who exercised, rested and wrote in a journal about their symptoms fared better than those who took specific vitamins or followed other DIY advice.,  You may have heard that smelling the ,  can make you want to get down and dirty -- but that's not the main reason exercise can lead to sex. For men, exercise can lower the risk of erectile dysfunction, and it gives both genders ,  about the body. ,  ,  have found that working out can lessen the severity of memory problems in older adults, and even decrease the risk of diseases like Alzheimer's. It can also have a positive benefit on the brain function of younger people. ,  out of New Zealand shows that exercise improves executive function -- the general brain processes that include planning, memory, reasoning, problem-solving and more. ,  After summarizing the effects of , , a group of researchers determined that exercise does indeed improve how you feel about your body. 