With the help of electrodes placed near the spine, patients who had been paralyzed for more than two years were able to regain some voluntary control over their legs, according to a study released Tuesday.. The electrodes stimulated the spinal cords of the patients while they engaged in specific motor tasks involving their paralyzed limbs. Before the patients were injured and their spinal cords were damaged, their brains would have sent those key electrical signals to their legs.. The .  reported Tuesday in the journal Brain proved promising as early as its first week of testing on four paraplegic subjects, each of whom was recruited to the study more than two years after his accident.. The success of paraplegic patients in learning to flex previously immobilized ankles, toes and knees also suggests that even in those with severed spinal cords, voluntary movement may not require signals from the brain's motor command center.. At the heart of the new rehabilitative approach is a suite of electrodes that is surgically implanted to deliver a current of electric energy to the spinal cord -- just below the patient's injury -- as the patient tries, practices and refines voluntary movements. The spinal cord stimulator was first designed to relieve back pain.. In the research team's first report, Edgerton and his colleagues in 2011 .  of then-25-year-old Rob Summers, completely paralyzed below the chest after a hit-and-run accident in 2006. While receiving spinal electric stimulation and being supported in a harness, Summers quickly trained his lower limbs to support his full weight for at least four minutes, and to make stepping motions upon command.. News of that preliminary victory was published in Lancet. But the team's replication of that feat in three more paralyzed patients -- including in two patients with a disruption of signals in both directions -- demonstrates that Summers' case "was not an anomaly," said Susan Howley, executive vice president for research at the Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation, which provides patient advocacy and funds spinal cord injury research, and partially funded the current study.. "We can now envision a day when epidural stimulation might be part of a cocktail of therapies used to treat paralysis," Howley added.. The three other paraplegics -- Andrew Meas, Dustin Shillcox and Kent Stephenson -- all had been paralyzed for longer than two years.. Edgerton and his fellow investigators are exploring whether they can send electrical currents powerful enough to drive such learning through the skin, obviating the need to surgically implant the electrode arrays. And they are exploring whether similar technology and training can help quadriplegics recover some voluntary use of their upper limbs and bodies.