The headline is worrying: "half of prostate cancer misdiagnosed".  . It came from a Cambridge University study which followed hundreds of men who were given a prostate cancer diagnosis.  . Half of the men who were told they had a less serious form of the disease, had in fact more serious cancer.  . Media reports suggested men with prostate cancer were being given 'false hope' by tests that underestimate the severity of the disease. . But cancer specialists have said diagnostic techniques have 'moved on' considerably in recent years. . Prostate cancer is the most common male cancer in the UK with more than 40,000 new cases each year and nearly 11,000 deaths. . Many men can live with the disease for years without the need for surgery and radiotherapy to remove the walnut-sized organ -  treatment which carries the risk of serious side effects such as erection problems. . The difficulty is separating less serious prostate cancers, often called 'pussycats', from the aggressive 'tigers'. . All the men in the Cambridge study had undergone needle biopsies - guided by ultrasound.  This technique means the medical team have to guess roughly where the abnormality might be when getting a tissue sample. . But things have moved on considerably since the study ended in 2008. . Current best practice, at centres like  Addenbrookes in Cambridge - where the study was carried out - and University College London Hospitals, is for patients to have an initial MRI scan. . This can often rule out any abnormality in the prostate meaning there is no need for any invasive tests.  . If a biopsy is required, the MRI scan is used as a template to accurately guide where to place the needle. . Professor Mark Emberton a consultant urologist at UCLH said in no other cancer would specialists take 'blind samples' of tissue, and there was now no need for it in prostate cancer. . He said diagnostic accuracy using MRI targeted biopsies was now in excess of 95 per cent, so men should be confident that they would get the best treatment. . Guidelines on prostate cancer treatment in England commissioned by NICE revealed that around three quarters of cancer specialists now use MRI for the detection of prostate cancer.