Those of us who can't or simply don't want to eat red meat need not banish meatloaf to the far recesses of the universe. This vegan version is loaded with , , chickpeas, sunflower kernels and a host of other ingredients that help to maintain the desired "loaf" shape. Topped with a delicious molasses glaze, you'll scarcely notice the absence of the trademark beef.  ,  from , The butter, full-fat cheese, eggs, whipping cream and bread crumbs in macaroni and cheese combine to create a perfect storm of artery-clogging badness. This skinny recipe swaps out or reduces the amount of many of these components to produce a version that is lower in fat and calories. , So what's the catch? Nothing, really. Sure, ,  is a major ingredient, but it's covered in cheesy goodness and soft enough to be virtually undetectable among the pasta.,  from , The beauty of this sumptuous dish is that it can be tailored to suit your tastes. Gather three cups of your favorite chopped vegetables and the recipe will be poised to please. Incorporate the veggies with , , chopped spinach, ricotta cheese and some other basic ingredients to create a mozzarella-covered beauty that boasts large portions at only 206.3 calories per serving. Mama Mia!,  from , Chili is a favorite for most folks, especially during the cooler months of the year when a little extra spice is nice. Several minor edits make this recipe healthier than traditional versions. Extra-lean ground beef cuts fat, fiber-rich vegetables lend bulk and nutrients and , , which can harm the heart and cause major bloat, to boot. At only 216.5 calories per each 1 1/2-cup serving (that's a lot of chili, y'all!) this classic dish will fill you up and leave room for a cornmeal muffin!,  from , This Italian comfort dish can be lightened up without sacrificing flavor. A minimal amount of butter and light mozzarella keep fat at bay. Bake to perfection and serve alongside fiber-rich whole-wheat pasta and your favorite ,  like broccoli for a surprisingly healthy meal.,  from , Made from a mixture of ground chicken or turkey and almond flour, these satay meatballs manage to be low carb, gluten free and lower in fat than their beef counterparts. Many of the herbs and sauce components lend an exotic Thai flavor, perfect for those who crave a twist on the traditional meatball experience.