An investigation into complaints involving a Flintshire hospital found "significant failings" in the care of two patients.. The probe into historic incidents at Deeside Community Hospital was announced in August, and some staff were withdrawn from care duties.. Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board will discuss .  on Tuesday.. It has also been revealed 75 complaints against the board are being examined by the Public Services Ombudsman.. In the case of Deeside Community Hospital, an inquiry into nursing care was launched after an allegation relating to the care of an elderly patient in 2004.. North Wales Police, Health Care Inspectorate Wales and Flintshire council's social services department were involved.. In the report Betsi Cadwaladr's director of nursing and midwifery Angela Hopkins, who chaired the review panel, said: "During the review panel significant failings relating to the care provided to both patients were identified.". The panel was assured safety measures had been improved, Matron Diane Rimmer is now in charge of the site, and there have been "no new on-the-spot or formal concerns registered in relation to the Deeside site" since March.. Ms Hopkins added: "The site has now implemented the majority of the recommendations contained within the Serious Untoward Incident report and matron Rimmer is in the process of producing an action plan for the long-term monitoring and compliance of the recommendations.. "The staff on the site are passionate about continuing to provide compassionate, patient-focused care and are eager to show the improvements that they have made and continue to make.". A separate report to be discussed by the health board on Tuesday reveals the Public Services Ombudsman is handling 75 complaints against it.. It says 58 cases are awaiting feedback from the ombudsman, with the board preparing its responses to another 17.. The ombudsman issued two public interest reports last year, one highlighting failings in respect of a Rhyl man who did not receive the attention he needed at Glan Clwyd Hospital, where he died of liver failure.. The other related to poor record-keeping at both Glan Clwyd and Wrexham Maelor Hospitals.. The board was recently issued with a draft report and has accepted its recommendations, which are expected to be made public shortly.