 , Here's how to make sure allergies won't hold you back this season:, Different plants produce different allergens, but which ones are causing your symptoms? "A ,  can perform a series of tests to find out what triggers your allergies," says , , president of the American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology., "For example, if you know that you're allergic to ragweed or tree pollen, it's important to know how prevalent those allergens are in the area where you're trying to exercise." , Because pollen counts vary by geographic location, visit a resource such as the ,  to track the locations of the plants you're allergic to -- and avoid workouts on high-count days (or exercise indoors)., If you want to exercise outside, it's best to do so when the pollen count is likely to be lowest. , "Many people are allergic to ragweed, which has a pollen count that rises in the morning and peaks at noon," Portnoy says. "You would time your activity during ragweed season so that it's in the very early morning before the pollen count shoots up, or in the late evening after it's gone down.", As a general rule, ,  are highest on windier, warmer days and lowest on days that are cool and damp. , "Pollen can travel up to 400 miles by wind, but if there's dew or fog, the pollen won't be able to travel far at all," Foggs says. "The best time to exercise outdoors is right after a rainfall, because the pollen has mostly been washed away." , To remove any pollen that might have attached to you, be sure to shower and wash your clothes (including gloves, jacket and any other gear) after your workout., Up to ,  have asthma as well., "Allergies trigger asthma, making it much more difficult to exercise," Portnoy says. "It's recommended that people with asthma take up swimming as an aerobic activity. The reason that exercise makes asthma worse is because the airways dry out and get cold when you're breathing really fast. If you're swimming instead of running outdoors, then there's more moisture and warmth so you're less likely to have trouble breathing." , Another option is to choose a less intense workout such as walking, yoga or weight training. Those activities are less likely to trigger ,  -- and heavy inhaling of allergens.