I canceled my upcoming work at the Utah Opera and the Opera Cowboy in Alabama, and started home to recover.  , Luckily for me, the stroke primarily affected the Broca area of my brain, which is responsible for speech production. I say "luckily" because I can now sing with better verbal fluency than I can speak. , I've learned how to communicate in my own way. Sometimes I order food in a singsong voice. Other times, I point at the menu and wait for confirmation by the waitstaff, and nod this aging head. Hey, if a man is hungry, he needs to eat.  , I've also learned to speak up for myself. Before my stroke, I lived and worked in fear because opera can be a very bloodthirsty business. I will never forget when one of my directors told me, "You're too nice!"  After he said that, I bowed my head sheepishly and waited for his next direction. , But in my earliest recovery phase, I vowed that I would never let fear seep back into my life and stop me from becoming a better husband and father. After all, singing opera is sustained, controlled yelling. My speech pathologist taught me graciously that speaking loudly, slowly and in short sentences is a good way to speak through my troubles. Stroke survivors can take their cues from the stage and "Live it out loud!"  , Most of all, I've learned that patience is a virtue. I have moderate-to-serious ,  (which makes it hard for me to read, write or say what I mean) and ,  (the inability to execute purposeful movements), so it takes patience for me to make any sense. Basically, my mind needs to slow down enough to let my tongue catch up. , (My lovely wife would probably say, "Aphasia, apraxia, hmmph! You never did make sense, and you never will!"), I thank God every day that my stroke occurred in New York, where I was close to my family, my friends and Columbia University Medical Center. How will I recover well enough to function again in society? My quick answer is: with faith, family, friends, patience and a good sense of humor. , Please share my story in honor of , .