I believe it was God who gave me another chance at life with the flood rescue and I wasn't going to waste it.  I was determined to show this disease who was boss and that I would not let MS define my life's journey! I wanted to show the world that MS looks different for everyone and that MS does not mean you have to give up on your dreams.  A diagnosis with any disease can be overwhelming, scary and confusing. Before, I, too, was scared and worried about how the world and the music industry would look at me if they knew I had MS., Would they judge me and stop booking me to sing places?, Would I be able to continue playing shows?, Would the dreams I'd been working toward my entire life be taken from me? If so, what else would I do?, I can't say life is a piece of cake. Occasionally I still get asked whether my MS will interfere with my professional or personal life, but I respond every day by doing what I love. , Can I continue to play my shows? Ask my fans who are there with me when I'm on tour around the world or playing a local nightspot.  Can I write my songs?  Listen to my current CD.  Can I live a full and happy life?  Come see the home I rebuilt after the flood., This doesn't mean I live my life in a haphazard way without a plan. I have developed a strong network of support, starting with my family.  After hearing some positive things about my local MS Society chapter, I also reached out to it for information and found a mentor who has grown into a lifelong friend.   , I've learned to manage my MS by keeping all my options open.  I have a neurologist who helps me control my MS with a disease-modifying therapy and address any symptoms that may appear.  I am also much more than my MS and I manage my life through diet, exercise and my faith., I have learned that I do not have to give up on my dreams.  , I do still have the challenge of educating those within my professional field that MS won't stand in the way of performing concerts or being with my fans.  It's a challenge I face head-on every day. I will continue to stand up for myself and those with MS and show the world that as people living with MS we can still do what we want to do.