The number of people in the world who are obese or overweight has topped 2.1 billion, up from 875 million in 1980, the latest figures published in the Lancet show. . And not one country is succeeding in treating it, . .. US, China and Russia had the highest rates and the UK was third in Western Europe, the 188-country study said. . Experts said the rise was due to the "modernisation of our world", causing "physical inactivity on all levels". . Researchers across the world were led by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) in Washington, in a study they said is the most comprehensive to date. . Scientists analysed data from surveys, such as from the World Health Organization, government websites, and reviewed "all articles" about the numbers of obese or overweight people in the world. . The study said rates of obesity were rising across the world, although the rates in developed countries remain the highest. . More than half of the world's 671 million obese people live in 10 countries, ranked in order: . Source: The Lancet. The UK has the third highest rates in Western Europe, with 67% of men and 57% of women overweight or obese, it said. . The study called for "urgent global leadership" to combat risk factors such as excessive calorie intake, inactivity, and "active promotion of food consumption by industry". . Prof Ali Mokdad, of the IHME, said no country was beating obesity as it was a relatively new problem.. "It takes a little bit of time to see success stories," he said. . The study reported more obese women than men living in developing countries. . Rates tended to be higher for women in developing countries as they were multi-tasking, looking after the family and working, said Prof Mokdad, so did not have the time to dedicate to managing their weight. . But more obese men than women lived in developed countries, said the study.  . Prof Mokdad said rates were higher for men in developed countries because of longer commutes to work, fuelled by a move to the suburbs, and spending more time inactive, using computers, he said. . Prof Hermann Toplak, at the University of Graz, in Austria, said: "Over the past decades the modernisation of our world, with all the technology around us, has led to physical inactivity on all levels.". Inactivity caused self-control to spiral, he said. . Children and adults were not building up enough functioning muscle mass, and "classical eating" had been replaced by "uncontrolled food intake" spread over the day. he said. . Prof John Newton, chief knowledge officer at Public Health England, said poor nutrition and lack of exercise were a big risk factor in Britain's most deprived areas. . PHE ran campaigns to help families be healthy, more active, and cut down on fat and sugar, he said.. He added: "Obesity is a complex issue that requires action at national, local, family and individual level; everyone has a role to play in improving the health and well-being of the public, and children in particular."