Electronic cigarettes are battery-powered devices that allow users to inhale nicotine vapor. The devices have generated billions of dollars in sales but remain extremely controversial. Advocates for e-cigarettes like that the vapor contains fewer toxins than the smoke from traditional cigarettes, and some studies suggest they can help smokers kick the habit. But public health advocates contend that e-cigarettes get young people hooked on nicotine, increasing the risk that they will become regular smokers. The devices also undermine efforts to make smoking seem taboo and may make it harder for smokers to quit by keeping them hooked on nicotine, they say.. Though the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has announced its intention to .  of e-cigarettes to minors, the agency has not taken steps to limit advertising aimed at kids. The authors of the new report wanted to quantify how often teens and young adults saw e-cigarette ads on TV.. The researchers also calculated the exposure for young adults between the ages of 18 and 24 and found that it increased by 321% between 2011 and 2013. The TRPs for this group were high enough to allow half of these young adults to see 35 e-cigarette commercials, on average, over the course of a year.. The researchers also reported that 19 e-cigarette makers aired commercials in some local markets between 2011 and 2013. These ads aired in groups of cities that were home to as many as 40% of American teens.. The most widely aired blu eCig commercials featured actor Stephen Dorff. In . , he is seen smoking in restaurants, a taxi, a subway, at a rock concert, on a hike and even while riding his bike. In . , he ticks off the benefits of e-cigarettes versus traditional cigarettes and winds up by saying, "We're all adults here. It's time we take our freedom back.". The study was conducted by researchers at RTI International in North Carolina's Research Triangle Park and a colleague at the Florida Department of Health in Tallahassee. Funding was provided by the state's .  program.