We live in an on-the-go society, which can leave little time for exercise and physical activity. But several studies have shown dog owners get more exercise than people who do not have a dog. ,  revealed that more than 2,000 adults who owned and walked their dogs regularly were in better shape, and were less likely to be become obese, than those who did not walk a dog. , For bigger dogs with more energy, try rollerblading, biking or skateboarding to the get the blood pumping and the body moving. , One of the greatest benefits pets provide is a 24/7 emotional support system. , Pets innately know when we need them most, which gives us a, and a self-esteem boost. Pets are even being used to help our nation's servicemen overcome post-traumatic stress disorder. , One study in the ,  found that pet owners had hearts that adapted better to stressful situations than non-pet owners. This is likely the rationale behind the annual Take Your Dog to Work Day.  , Your heart loves your pet in more ways than one. Some of the largest and most well-designed studies in this field suggest that cats and dogs can help improve our heart health. , The ,  cites a number of studies that found pet ownership may help reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. Some data even indicates that pets help lower cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and that owners with heart issues are more likely to survive heart attacks.,  , Studies, ,  published in JAMA in 2002, have shown that being exposed to pet dander early on in life can help prevent future allergies. Specifically, children under the age of 1 who had two or more dogs or cats as family pets saw a reduction in allergy development by the time they were 6 or 7., Other studies have shown similar results, finding that early cat exposure reduced the development of allergies later in life., Taking your dog to the park or around the block for a walk may be benefiting you more than you're aware. Research indicates that walking with a dog leads to more conversations with neighbors, other dog owners, etc. and helps you stay socially connected. ,  A ,  in the journal Applied Developmental Science found that young adults with a strong attachment to cats and dogs also reported feeling more connected to their relationships and communities. And ,  have shown those that have a more fulfilled and busy social life live longer, happier lives.