Los Angeles County leaders voted Tuesday to fully implement Laura's Law, a state law that allows counties to pursue court-ordered outpatient treatment for people with serious mental illness.. The law was recently adopted by San Francisco and Orange counties. Los Angeles County launched a small program soon after Laura's Law took effect in 2003, but the county's current program is purely voluntary.. The vote, which will expand funding for outpatient treatment in the county, will allow a family member, treatment provider or law enforcement officer to ask a court to order someone to undergo treatment. Patients, however, can't be forced to take medication.. The annual cost of the expanded program will be a little under $10 million, but that is expected to be primarily covered by state mental health funds and Medi-Cal.. Laura's Law has been praised by advocates who say it gives a new tool to family members of adults with severe untreated mental illness. But it has also drawn opposition from civil liberties advocates and others who say court-ordered treatment infringes on patients' rights.. Both sides voiced their views to the supervisors Tuesday.. Brittney Weissman, executive director of the National Alliance on Mental Illness' Los Angeles chapter, told the supervisors: "Laura's Law helps very ill individuals -- who often don't recognize that they're sick -- get well and stay in the community so that they can later continue in treatment on their own.". Others, such as Mark-Anthony Johnson of local advocacy group Dignity and Power Now, cautioned the supervisors that the move could further criminalize those with mental illness.. Johnson said Laura's Law "plays into the fear that folks with mental health conditions are violent people." And he expressed concerns that people of color would be disproportionately targeted for court-ordered treatment.. "We don't want to go back to the day when people were institutionalized in a way that was very harmful to themselves and to us as a society," she said.. County mental health officials said details of the court component of the law are still to be worked out, but that the emphasis will remain on getting people to voluntarily engage in treatment.