Consumers should look for a sticker on their fruit that says ", ," according to the recall warnings., Internal testing at Wawona revealed the potential listeria contamination, the company says. Listeria was found on on two nectarines and one peach. It is not yet clear how they became contaminated., The facility was shut down and sanitized, and subsequent tests have been negative for the bacteria. , "We are aware of no illnesses related to the consumption of these products," Wawona President Brent Smittcamp said in a statement. "By taking the precautionary step of recalling product, we will minimize even the slightest risk to public health, and that is our priority.", Smittcamp is urging customers not to eat any of these stone fruits -- meaning fruits with large pits -- and to either destroy them or return them to a nearby store for a refund. , Whole Foods is also recalling several of their ",  such as cakes, tarts, salsas, and prepared salads" that may contain the contaminated fruit. , In addition, Wegmans has recalled several of its baked goods that contain fruit from Wawona Packing Co. This includes cakes, pies, tarts and other pastries. For a full list, see, ., Listeria monocytogenes is a bacterium that can cause listeriosis. The most common symptoms of listeriosis are gastrointestinal issues (such as diarrhea), fever and muscle aches. Pregnant women, infants, older adults and people with weakened immune systems are particularly at risk for a more serious infection, according to the , ., If you have already eaten one of the recalled products and begin to feel ill, see your doctor and tell him or her about the recall. , "Your doctor will make a diagnosis and should report any positive test findings for Listeria monocytogenes to public health authorities, who will then report it to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention," Wawona ,  about the recall. , The CDC estimates about 1,600 illnesses and 260 deaths are caused by listeriosis each year in the United States. Overall, outbreaks have been on the decline since 2001, but the largest in U.S. history occurred in 2011. Cantaloupes from a farm in Colorado sickened 147 people and killed nearly three dozen. The farmers responsible , to five years' probation, including six months of in-home detention. 