Consider for a moment what you hate about your job. (Everybody hates . about their job, right?) Maybe your boss is a screamer. Your co-workers are conniving backstabbers. And you feel like you're on a dead-end career path.. Now, what if you reframed those work problems as opportunities for personal growth and self-examination?. Sharon Salzberg, author of "Real Happiness at Work," says many Americans who feel increasingly frustrated, overworked and underappreciated have more control over their work lives than they may realize.. I hear that all the time. People say, "Hey, we don't call it 'play'; we call it 'work.' We're not supposed to have a good time doing it." But I think we can all understand happiness as something much deeper than just having a good time. It speaks to a type of resiliency, an ability to recover from mistakes or setbacks. I think everyone actually wants to be happier at work.. Yes. By happiness, we are talking about the challenges of taking our deepest values and bringing them to work. ... We can really have the intention to do whatever we are doing very well, where we're not halfhearted, where we try to make every encounter something where we truly listen and care about the other person and see what comes out of that different sort of awareness.. I've heard this phrase ... "email apnea," where we stop breathing or breathe in a shallow fashion when we are checking our email. That has a profound physiological effect. I think it's powerful to take notice of the moments in the day when we are starting to feel that anger, that anxiety, that irritation, or when we are starting to feel like we are not breathing. I would suggest you begin by trying to establish even a very short period of [a meditation or mindfulness] practice at home, where you even take five minutes to push out all the distractions and focus on the breath.. When tempers are starting to flare, tensions are starting to rise, we can recognize it and come back to ourselves. It's taking a step back. Mindfulness is about changing our relationship to our thoughts, to our feelings, so we have more balance and clarity. Then you begin to realize when you are . to get angry. Not when you've written the email and pressed send. One of the great benefits to mindfulness in the workplace is that it releases us from tunnel vision.. A lot of it is knowing your motivation. What are you trying to accomplish? Do you want to be seen as right? Do you want revenge? Do you want to get back at someone? Even if we need to say something that is difficult, we can still be kind.. Somebody I spoke to who had a great difficulty saying no [using mindfulness and meditation training], she recognized the feelings, the sense of panic that she'd feel when she was asked to do more and more. She trained herself to recognize the pattern and to draw clearer boundaries. But in a nice way. She was able to grow in herself.