As the days get shorter, our thoughts turn to last year's flu and bronchitis season. The 2013-14 influenza season was particularly tough on the 25-to-64 age group, and experts say we should be prepared for a repeat performance. Is there a way to not just treat symptoms but prevent those and other illnesses in the first place?. The key, experts say, is helping your immune system regulate itself.. Here are five ways to help your immune system do its job:. Yes, dancing and singing along with Pharrell Williams to "Happy" makes you feel, well, happy. But research also shows that music is a powerful tool in boosting your immunity. A study done at Sussex University in Britain and the Max Planck Institute in Germany found that people who listened to dance music had significantly higher levels of antibody immunoglobin-A, one of the immune system's warriors, and lower levels of the stress hormone cortisol. A 2013 review of research out of McGill University in Montreal on music and health found that playing music and singing are even more powerful.. Getting your om on helps stave off illness too. Scientists in New Delhi conducted a controlled study with 60 first-year medical students, one group getting a daily dose of 35 minutes of integrated yoga with a teacher. The control group did no yoga. At the end of 12 weeks, the students were given a test. The yoga students showed no increase in the stress hormone cortisol during the exam, while the control group's stress hormones were off the charts. The researchers concluded that yoga helps the body resist the impairment of cellular immunity during stressful events. And a daily practice is not necessary: Researchers found once and three times a week increased college students' immune levels after just eight weeks, with three times a week having the greater effect.. Evidence keeps mounting that daily probiotics can ward off sickness in a number of ways. A study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition suggests that probiotics, in the form of fermented foods such as yogurt, kombucha tea and kim chi, may strengthen a defense barrier in the gut that keeps out harmful microorganisms. Other theories hold that the "good" bacteria in probiotics help your intestines absorb the nutrients your body needs for a resilient immune system by reducing inflammation.. To keep your immune system in peak condition, you need at least eight hours of sleep a night. "The average night's sleep 130 years ago was nine hours a night. Now we're down to 63/4 hours," explains Teitelbaum. "Sleep deprivation triggers immune suppression." A study published by the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology found that even a modest disturbance of sleep produced a reduction of natural immune responses and an alteration of cellular immune functions. After just one night of sleep deprivation from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m., otherwise healthy male volunteers showed a significant reduction in immune cell activity.