Freelance journalist . , who contracted Ebola in Liberia, . , becoming the second patient with the deadly disease to be treated there.. Why is he being sent to Nebraska instead of some other facility? Because the hospital is home to the largest of four high-level biocontainment patient care units in the U.S.. The Nebraska Medical Center says the unit was commissioned in 2005 as a joint project with Nebraska Health and Human Services and the University of Nebraska Medical Center.. "It was designed to provide the first line of treatment for people affected by bio terrorism or extremely infectious naturally occurring diseases," the center's website says.. "The Ebola virus is very difficult to contract," says Dr. Phil Smith, medical director of the unit, on its website. "The risk it would pose to people outside the unit would be zero, and this is something that can be very safely treated without infecting health care workers.". The three other high-level biocontainment facilities in the U.S. are at .  in Missoula, Mont., the .  in Maryland and .  in Atlanta, where two infected patients were treated this summer.. Dr. Rick Sacra, 51, .  at Nebraska Medical Center. He has since recovered.. , Bruce Ribner, director of Emory's Serious Communicable Disease Unit, says caregivers use "personal protective equipment designed to prevent ... staff from coming into contact with blood, body fluids and large respiratory droplets.". Ribner said that the doors at the facility don't need to be sealed "because all airflow goes into the patient room since the rooms are under negative pressure.". : "[Hospital] staff volunteers at Nebraska Medical Center run twice yearly drills with decontamination at their hospital's 10-bed biocontainment unit. It's the country's largest, opened in 2005 with $1 million in federal and state funding. 'It's built like a concrete box,' says Angela Hewlett, the unit's associate medical director. 'We want to keep our germs inside.' But like Missoula, Nebraska hasn't seen a single infectious disease patient. Sometimes they use it as overflow for the emergency room.".  We previously identified the location of Montana's biocontainment facility as .  (RML) in Hamilton. We've since updated this post.