The UK is sending 750 military personnel to Sierra Leone to help deal with the deadly Ebola outbreak, Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has confirmed.. The UK will .  The personnel will be deployed next week.. It comes as Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said it was "now entirely possible that someone with Ebola will come to the UK either by one route or another". . The latest figures show .  in the West African epidemic.. The vast majority of deaths have been in Guinea, Liberia and in Sierra Leone, where 879 have died.. There is no cure or vaccine for Ebola, which has so far infected more than 8,000 people in the worst outbreak yet.. British troops will help to establish treatment centres and a training academy, with the ship and helicopters providing support.. It comes as:. Mr Hammond, speaking in Washington with US Secretary of State John Kerry, said military and civilian teams were already in Sierra Leone, working on constructing five new Ebola treatment facilities with 700 beds. . He said that at a meeting of the government's Cobra emergency committee in London - which he joined via video link - the decision was made to deploy the RFA Argus to Freetown, Sierra Leone's capital, along with the three Merlin helicopters.. It is estimated the measures will help the country treat nearly 8,800 patients over six months.. Mr Hammond said: "This disease is an unprecedented threat that knows no borders. We have to get ahead of this disease. If we get ahead of it and rise to the challenge, we can contain it and beat it.". He said the UK had committed more than $200m (£125m) to the programme in Sierra Leone. . And he urged other countries to commit not only money but more resources, including medical personnel, to lead the effort on the ground.. "We all have to do more if we are going to prevent what is currently a crisis from becoming a catastrophe," he said.. Downing Street said the 750 troops included:. Forty British military engineers have already travelled to the country to set up the facilities, said BBC defence correspondent Jonathan Beale.. Our correspondent said 100 troops had been due to travel to the country next week but they will now be joined by hundreds more.. "It shows Britain is clearly worried about this and is ramping up its efforts in the same way the US has done," said our correspondent. . The US has pledged as many as 4,000 troops to the region.. Mr Kerry said the US and UK were "standing together" to battle the virus in West Africa.. Ebola spreads through contact with the bodily fluids of someone who has the virus and the only way to stop an outbreak is to isolate those who are infected.. Earlier, US officials announced travellers from Ebola-affected countries will face increased security scrutiny at American airports.. The Department of Homeland Security has ordered agents at airports and other ports to take temperatures and question passengers.