New York's JFK airport has started screening to try to stem the Ebola outbreak that has killed more than 4,000 people.. Passengers from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea - the worst-hit countries - will have their temperatures taken and have to answer a series of questions.. Checks at O'Hare in Chicago, Newark, Washington's Dulles and Atlanta's airport will begin in the coming days.. This comes after the first person died of Ebola in Texas on Wednesday. . Thomas Duncan had travelled to the US from Liberia, and was only diagnosed with the disease once he arrived in Dallas..  released by the World Health Organization show the number of deaths attributed to the the haemorrhagic fever has risen to 4,033. . The vast majority of the fatalities - 4,024 - were in the West African nations of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea.. In other developments:. The screening measures at JFK started on Saturday. Border agents will check passengers for signs of illness such as high temperatures.. Passengers from the three African nations will also be asked about their travel history prior to coming to the US and also if they have been in contact with anyone suffering from Ebola. . If they answer "Yes" to any questions or are running a fever, a representative of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) will intervene and provide a public health assessment.. There are currently no scheduled direct flights from the three countries to the US, with most passengers from Africa travelling via Europe.. Gil Kerlikowske, commissioner of US Customs and Border Protection, said the new system provided an extra layer of assurance for the American public, and would cover 94% of travellers from the affected region.. Martin Cetron, director for the Division of Global Migration and Quarantine at the Centers for Disease Control, said that this was in addition to the 100% screening being carried out at the points of departure.. However, he cautioned that "we cannot get the risk to zero" and that the latest screening "may not have caught the Texas case".. Mr Duncan only developed symptoms a week after he entered the US.. Experts have warned that a person can carry the virus for up to three weeks before showing symptoms.. JFK and the four other airports account for 90% of air travellers arriving in the US. As many as 160 people enter the US from the worse-affected countries each day.. "There is no cause for alarm," New York Mayor Bill de Blasio said earlier, adding that the city was "particularly well prepared".. "Physicians, hospitals, emergency medical personnel are trained in how to identify this disease and how to quickly isolate anyone who may be afflicted.". To test the readiness of New York, people pretending to display Ebola symptoms - the so-called "simulated patients" - have been walking into hospital emergency rooms to see if there were any weaknesses in the new system. . :