Boris Johnson has said the government is at risk of promising "stuff that doesn't really make any sense" in its plans to prevent Ebola reaching the UK.. Screening of people arriving from Ebola-affected areas will start next week, but the mayor of London said this was a "far from perfect solution".. He said "you can't test everybody" and some infected people would get through.. A consultant has called screening a "political gesture", but a government expert said it would save lives.. Mr Johnson - who has been selected as the Conservative candidate for Uxbridge and South Ruislip in the 2015 general election - said blood tests could not be done on every person arriving in the UK, and temperature checks would not catch every case because the virus had an incubation period of up to three weeks before symptoms start.. "I have little doubt that eventually there will be a case of Ebola in this country and probably in this city," he told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show.. But he said "fantastic" medical preparations were in place.. Screening - to be introduced at Heathrow and Gatwick airports and Eurostar terminals - will include questions about passengers' travel history and a "possible medical assessment", health officials said.. It is expected to focus on people who have recently been to the worst-affected West African countries - Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea.. In email seen by the BBC, a senior consultant involved in the screening programme said it was "unlikely to provide public health benefits".. But the government's chief medical officer, Dame Sally Davies, said although it was a "blunt instrument" it would save lives.. She said screening was "unlikely" to pick up any cases but stressed the "great advantage" would be to alert people to what symptoms to look for and what to do if they fall ill.. This would reduce their chances of dying and of spreading the virus to others, she said.. Symptoms of Ebola include fever, headache, vomiting, diarrhoea and bleeding - but these are similar to more common infections like flu and some stomach bugs.. If you have these symptoms and have had contact with an Ebola patient, . . Do not go directly to A&E or a GP.. If there has been no contact with Ebola, seek help from 111, your GP or A&E if necessary.. The chances of developing Ebola in the UK are low. . Similar measures are being taken in the US, with screening under way at New York's JFK airport and checks at some other airports due to start in the coming days.. US officials have said a Texas healthcare worker who treated an Ebola patient has . ..  on Friday showed there had been 4,024 confirmed or suspected Ebola deaths in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone during the current outbreak.