Ten days ago, Ashoka Mukpo, an NBC freelance cameraman who caught Ebola in West Africa, arrived in Omaha, Neb., for treatment.. He is one of "hundreds" of foreign nationals who were exposed to the virus in West Africa and have been flown to another country for treatment, says Robert Quigley, the U.S. medical director at . , the world's largest medical assistance company. He says his group has had "some sort of interaction" with all such evacuations, whether a consultation or arranging for the transport of an infected patient.. The reason for the evacuation is always the same: The patient (or his or her employer) wants the best possible medical care and is concerned that it won't be available in West Africa.. The vast majority of the evacuees are considered low-risk cases, says Quigley. They had casual contact — such as a handshake — with an Ebola patient, who may or may not have been contagious at the time.. In the early days of the outbreak, these low-risk individuals were allowed to fly out on commercial flights. Now they leave on chartered flights. Local health departments follow up with these cases.. High-risk patients have had direct contact with the bodily fluids of an Ebola patient. Some have been diagnosed with the virus; others haven't shown symptoms. These individuals are evacuated with the highest precautions: quarantine before departure, escorts in protective suits, no other passengers except for medical staff (or, in one case, another Ebola patient), ambulances waiting at the destination.. According to news reports and health agency records, there have been about 15 high-risk evacuees (see below) since early August. Evacuation fees can run .  per person. Typically, the organization that employed the individual (or the organization's insurance company) foots the bill.. Regardless of the patient's nationality, flight arrangements have been coordinated by the U.S. State Department and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for 10 of the evacuees.. Why, you ask?. A high-risk individual should be evacuated in a plane with a biological containment unit. That way, pilots, medical staff and ground crew are kept out of harm's way. U.S.-based .  has two such planes, which are monitored by the State Department and CDC. And the State Department decides who'll be flown out on these planes.. If international demand becomes too high, the system might be revamped.. Spain and the United Kingdom have used similar planes to evacuate their nationals during the current outbreak. Other countries possess the equipment, but it would take time and training for them to handle an evacuation, says Quigley.. In some cases, the .  plays a role. The organization keeps a list of hospitals equipped to handle Ebola patients, says spokeswoman Fadela Chaib.. NGOs, governments and other health organizations can consult WHO to find the best facility. WHO will approach hospitals on a patient's behalf but will only pay for the evacuation of its own staff.. "No exceptions," says WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic. "It sets a bad precedent, and we're .  to do so" — that is, to foot the bill.. Patients are usually sent to their home country, although one WHO staffer from Senegal was flown to the closest facility for care, a hospital in Germany.. Two potential evacuations made headlines. In one incident in July, a Sierra Leonean doctor who did not work for WHO was diagnosed with Ebola. WHO petitioned a hospital from its list to accept the physician. The approval didn't come in time, and the doctor died.. In another instance, the Sierra Leonean government asked for WHO to pay for the .  to Hamburg, Germany, for treatment. WHO denied the request for funding since Buck was not its employee; he subsequently died.. Here's a rundown of high-profile evacuees:. Dr. Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol, health workers for missionary groups.  Aug. 2 and Aug. 5.  Monrovia, Liberia, to Atlanta, Ga.. U.S. State Department.  Writebol, 58, and Brantly, 33, were the first Americans evacuated to the U.S. Both received the experimental drug . . Samaritan's Purse, the Christian nonprofit that employs Brantly, .  for both trips, even though Writebol works for a different organization, SIM USA.. Brantly later donated blood to American patients Rick Sacra, who also survived, and Ashoka Mukpo. Doctors believe a survivor's blood might contain protective antibodies.. Miguel Pajares, Spanish physician/priest.  Aug. 7.  Monrovia to Madrid. Spanish Air Force.  The .  confirmed with Ebola during the crisis, Pajares, 75, worked at San José de Monrovia Hospital in Liberia. He received ZMapp. Pajares .  on Aug. 12. One of his nurses in Madrid — Maria Teresa Romero Ramos, 44 — caught the virus, becoming the first known person to contract Ebola .  during this outbreak.. William Pooley, British nurse.  .  Freetown, Sierra Leone, to London. British Royal Air Force.  The first Briton afflicted during this outbreak, .  one of seven recipients of ZMapp. Pooley wants .  the battle against Ebola.. Unidentified Senegalese WHO epidemiologist.  Aug. 27.  Freetown, Sierra Leone, to Hamburg, Germany. U.S. State Department.  After the doctor fell ill with Ebola, WHO deemed that the best health care would be found overseas. The staffer was .  He recovered and was released on Oct. 3.. Rick Sacra, doctor with the missionary group SIM USA.  Sept. 5.  Monrovia to Omaha, Neb.. U.S. State Department.  The third American evacuee, Sacra received blood from Brantly as well as the . . Though he recovered and was released two weeks ago, Sacra was rehospitalized on Oct. 4 with pneumonia. The lung condition was likely a side effect of Ebola weakening his immune system. The Ebola virus has not resurfaced, . . He was released on Oct. 7.. Unidentified American health worker employed by WHO.  Sept. 9.  Freetown to Atlanta. U.S. State Department.  No updates on this patient's status have been issued, though Ebola survivor William Pooley .  to donate his blood.. Nick Zwinkels and Erdi Huizenga, Dutch doctors with .  Sept. 14.  Yele, Sierra Leone, to the Netherlands. Private charter, International SOS.  Huizenga, 39, and Zwinkels, 31, treated three patients at a clinic in Yele, Sierra Leone, in early September, wrongly assuming they were suffering from malaria or another illness. The patients died; test results showed that they had Ebola.. The Dutch health ministry recommended the evacuation, which was paid for by the foundation's insurance company. International SOS provided the chartered flight.. Huizenga and Zwinkels spent 14 days in voluntary quarantine in the Netherlands before receiving the all-clear on Sept 30.. Unidentified French health worker, employed by .  Sept. 18.  Monrovia to Paris. U.S. State Department.  It took 42 hours for a medevac plane to arrive from the U.S., .  such an aircraft should be kept on standby in West Africa. The health organization announced on Oct. 3 that the individual had been treated with an undisclosed experimental medicine and had recovered.. Manuel García Viejo, Spanish physician/priest.  Sept. 22.  Freetown to Madrid. Spanish Air Force.  García Viejo belonged to the .  as Pajares. He had worked in Africa for 30 years. He died four days after being evacuated.. Unidentified Swiss nurse.  Sept. 22.  From Sierra Leone to Geneva University Hospital, Switzerland. Private charter, provider unknown.  On . , a child infected with Ebola bit the male nurse, who was wearing protective equipment. It's unclear whether the bite penetrated his skin. He is still being observed, say officials from the Swiss Federal Office of Public Health: "He has displayed no symptoms so far. An infection is unlikely." They said he would be monitored until the end of last week, at which point his 21-day window would be over.. Unidentified American doctor.  Sept. 28.  Sierra Leone to Bethesda, Md.. U.S. State Department.  The American doctor was evacuated to the "special clinical studies unit" at the . . The patient was exposed to Ebola after an accidental needle stick. The patient was initially kept in isolation and enrolled in a.  on "exposures to biodefense/bioterrorism agents or to epidemic/emerging infectious diseases." After being monitored for a week, he was . . His original symptom — a fever — abated. In accordance with CDC guidelines, the patient will remain homebound, check his temperature twice a day and report to a hospital if his condition changes during the standard 21-day observation window for Ebola symptoms.. Unidentified Ugandan doctor.  Oct. 3.  Sierra Leone to Frankfurt, Germany. U.S. State Department.  The doctor works for an unidentified Italian NGO, whose insurers are paying the bill. WHO .  to take the case, according to hospital officials. This individual is the second African doctor evacuated to Europe. Both went to Germany.. Norwegian health worker.  Oct. 6.  Bo, Sierra Leone, to Oslo, Norway. U.S. State Department.  The .  was working in one of Sierra Leone's hardest-hit districts..  Ashoka Mukpo.  Oct. 6.  Monrovia, Liberia, to Bangor, Maine (pitstop for fuel), to Omaha, Neb..  U.S. State Department.  The 33-year-old journalist believes that he caught the virus while .  where someone had previously died from Ebola. Kent Brantly has . . The .  say Mukpo's condition is improving..  Senegalese medical worker.  Oct. 9.  Liberia to Leipzig, Germany.  U.S. State Department.  The 56-year-old United Nations health worker was transported to St. Georg Clinic in the city of Leipzig. Upon arrival, his condition was labeled ". ." Despite intensive treatment, he succumbed to the virus on Oct. 14.