 on 1 April was greeted with great warmth and relief across the service. In some quarters he was regarded almost as a messiah – the man who had come back into the fold, after 10 years in US private healthcare, to rescue the NHS from its crisis of unsustainability. He saved us once before, in 2000, with the . ’s extra billions and extra staff, so he’s the one to do something similar again, they thought.. Stevens deliberately did not administer any immediate quick fixes or announce headline-grabbing initiatives. He told the health select committee in April he would set out his thoughts about how to meet the challenges facing the service – ageing, integration with social care, modernisation of primary care, lifestyle-related illnesses, and much more – within six months.. Now the wait is over. On Thursday, his tablets of stone – the .  – will arrive. Stevens said last week that, given the broad agreement the service needs to radically rethink how it works, or become unfit for purpose, the document “will make the case for some of the changes we’re going to need”. He said: “It’s not a one-size-fits-all blueprint for every part of the country, let alone a detailed plan for everything that needs to happen. It is, however, a scene-setter for some of the bold action needed.” With the NHS now voters’ top priority and its finances extremely fragile, its timing is perfect.. Some of those close to Stevens try to give the impression that these are just a few casual thoughts for ministers to consider; that it’s definitely not “a plan”. “Expect it to be a bit more strategic directional rather than a plan,” says one aide. They want to avoid the impression that this is Stevens telling ministers what to do. “It’s just Simon’s independent advice as the chief executive of .  England,” says another insider.. Indeed it isn’t just NHS England’s advice. The five other big NHS organisations have all agreed its contents too: Monitor, NHS Trust Development Authority, Care Quality Commission, Public Health England and .  Education England. This is where its importance and authority lies. The Forward View is the entire NHS’s own answer to the big questions about whether it can survive as a unique system of healthcare.. Disregard the guff about this not being a plan or the NHS not telling ministers what to do. It is both. It will link what the NHS can and cannot be expected to do in 2015-20 to how much money it receives. And as no political party wants the NHS to visibly decline on its watch, this is a not-so-subtle public warning that without extra billions, bad headlines and public discontent will follow. Even the promise that the NHS will earn the extra dosh by undertaking unprecedented reform will not obscure that key message to Labour, the Tories and the Liberal Democrats.. By setting out options for what the NHS can provide, by saying “£X lets us do this, but £Y means we can do much more”, it will really be saying: if you want to avoid your time in office being a constant battle for which patients/services do or don’t deserve funding, find the money to fund the most generous of these options. Stevens’s pitch to the NHS itself will be similar to when he co-authored the NHS Plan: modernise how you work – embrace new models of care, many of them delivered outside hospitals – accept that the NHS can’t do everything (the passages about competition may provoke a row), and, aided by the money, we will make the NHS fit for the times we are in.. In recent months, thinktanks, medical organisations, patient groups and NHS trade unions have set out their views on the service’s future; newspapers have run week-long series on the subject; and the three main political parties have set out their own solutions. Despite arriving last, the Forward View is now the document that matters most. Its fewer than 50 pages will immediately reshape the NHS debate.. Parties in or wishing to be in government will have to revise plans set out only weeks ago at their conferences, respond with the same clarity and realism as that underpinning the document, and answer the question it implicitly asks them: “So what would you do?” It’s all very challenging for Cameron, Miliband and Clegg. But failure to respond in kind to the Forward View’s ambition will undermine a service under serious pressure that needs politicians to make tough decisions for its benefit.