Working within the public sector inevitably comes with its perks and its disadvantages. The recent NHS and civil service strikes show infuriation over pay cuts and job losses is stronger than ever. But equally, public service jobs are interesting, challenging and hands-on, and at their best come with a feeling of fulfilment and accomplishment. And often this feeling is passed down through the generations.. So what is it that spurs people on to follow in their parents’ footsteps down the road of greater public good? From NHS workers to Teachfirst advocates, being part of the mesh that ties our community together also ties families together.. Joseph Stone, 21, a trainee social worker in child protection on the Frontline training programme, comes from a family devoted to the public sector. “My dad is a palliative doctor and my mum is a special educational needs worker in a state school,” he says. “Throughout my family, we’ve always wanted to support others.”. He explains how being involved with his parents’ work from a young age helped him decide on his future. “When we were little, I, my sisters and my mum went into dad’s work at Christmas and sang with the patients. There’s a massive positive side from working with people in that way,” he says. “I also have dyslexia, so had support at school and got to see the side of work my mum did with special educational needs. I realised if there aren’t people supporting these individuals in society, then they wouldn’t be able to reach their full potential.”. Aside from this need to help people, what other factors come into play? Gillian Marnie from Dundee has worked in the NHS for 25 years and is an assistant information governance officer, answering the public’s queries and dealing with Freedom of Information requests. Her first job was at the then-public British Telecom, the same company her father worked for, before later moving into the NHS.. “I didn’t know anyone in the NHS. I started as a part time receptionist because of the hours and location,” she says. Now a keen advocate for the NHS, she has helped her sister get a job in the organisation, and hopes her 20-year-old son Fraser will soon follow suit.. “Fraser is desperate to get into the NHS,” she says. “I’ve persuaded him it’s a great career. Conditions are very good – if he was ill and needed time off, they’d recognise it and would be very good with that. There’s job security and the terms and conditions are excellent. We’ve got more annual leave than most people at 41 days a year.”. Fraser, who is studying biomedical science at university, agrees that the job security has attracted him to the sector. “The NHS has a clear pay structure and further employment opportunities,” he says. “I also like the idea of going into healthcare and processing patient samples because you are helping patients to get diagnosed and cured. In the private sector it’s more research-based.”. His mother’s involvement in the sector has certainly swayed him. “My mum has influenced me on a subconscious level,” he says. “She’s always worked in the NHS and while I’ve grown up I’ve picked up what the NHS is about.”. Steve Cook, a 41-year-old watch manager in the fire and rescue service, also followed in his father’s footsteps, who served for 30 years, while his mum worked as a primary school teaching assistant.. “As far back as possible I have had an interest in joining the fire and rescue service,” he says. “People have asked whether I joined because my dad had been a firefighter. I always say: ‘I don’t know. Maybe, because that’s all I have known.’”. Steve’s wife is also a primary school teacher. He explains that their jobs complement each other, as he goes into schools to give safety advice and raise awareness of the fire service, while she helps with his assignments for teaching qualifications as part of his training. “Working in public services isn’t really an ethos within the family as such – it is just what we do and have always done,” he says.. 40-year-old Finn Madell on the other hand, who followed her mother into social work, says that the public welfare ethos in her family has always been strong.. “There are strong socialist roots in my family. My little boy was really keen to take lots of food in for the harvest festival collection for the food bank last week. That made me and my husband really proud.”. Whether the influence is built on social values, subconscious instinct or practical reasons, it’s obvious that devotion to the public service is passed down through generations. Regardless of field, the satisfaction gained from helping people on a daily basis must be addictive.. “I don’t think I could ever do a job where I was sitting at a desk,” says social worker Joseph Stone. “I like to come back from a day thinking I’ve achieved something tangible – and that’s all around working with people.”