Back in the 1960s when I was a mere stripling in the data processing industry and the world of computers was “new and all”, two great truths were drummed into me:.  An IT system will fail if the people who use it are not involved in the design..  Top managers must drive the implementation, and accept responsibility for its success or failure.. In the 70s and 80s, I learned a third: any widespread system must use data and communications standards, otherwise, the parts of the system will not talk to each other, and become a tower of Babel.. GP systems have, for most part, followed these three great precepts, as they were built in the 80s by . , who had become bored of doctoring. From their intimate knowledge of GP practice, they developed systems that were doctor, nurse and receptionist-friendly.. But, for the most part, hospitals ignored all three precepts, and as a result are in a hopeless fragmented incompatible mess. They set up IT departments, populated by geeks, who had no grasp of medicine or hospital practice. They spent their time implementing clunky “patient administration systems” handed down by the Department of . . Later, from 2002–10 they busied themselves, under the National Plan for IT, trying to implement monster proprietary systems without really consulting those who would use them.. I remember, in 2005, hearing a hospital IT manager say that he had asked the clinical director whether he wanted to be kept informed about the progress of the massive system being planned. The answer was: “No, we are too busy. Just let us know when you are finished, show it to us then, and then we’ll let you know whether we like it.”. The IT people duly finished it many moons later, and, lo and behold, the clinicians found it was not fit for purpose. At the time, I couldn’t make up my mind who was the more irresponsible, the clinical director who didn’t want to get involved, or the IT manager who didn’t want clinicians wasting his time, crawling all over his precious IT system.. To make things worse, from time to time, some consultant got the IT department to write some quirky system to impose on his ward. This may have been useful, but usually bore no relation to any other IT development in other parts of the hospital.. I remember in 1997 accompanying a group of parliamentarians to St Thomas’s to view an advanced cardio-thoracic monitoring system developed by a senor consultant. The delegation was impressed, but a peer asked what plans there were to spread this system across other hospitals. The consultant answered that no other hospital was intelligent enough to understand the system, let alone implement it. The parliamentarians were incensed by this reply. It showed them how culturally impossible it was to spread good practice across the . .. They were backed by the “IT lead” for the BMA, who declared in 2002 that all IT developments should be “bottom up”. The unintended effect of this was fragmentation and incompatibility. In a reaction against fragmentation, Richard Granger, boss of the National Plan for IT, tried to impose from the top down. But this did not work either, because it was too crudely applied, and the clinicians were not (or chose not to be) consulted.. This is made worse by NIH (not invented here), the tendency of hospitals to choose systems that the next-door hospital has not. My three local hospitals use three different computer systems. This means they can’t share my patient record electronically between each other. Only one has taken the trouble to pass results electronically to and from my GP. The two others use snail mail. For heaven’s sake, this is the 21st century.. The problem is that for most hospitals, IT stops at the hospital gates. They have enough problems getting the wards within the hospital to communicate with each other. Most of them just cannot see the point in talking digitally to other local hospitals or to the GPs who send them patients – let alone to the patients themselves by email. The hospitals are jeopardising my care.. What is to be done about this shambles? I am tempted to say: “Knock all their heads together”. But this is what Richard Granger, from 2002–08, tried to do with the National Plan for IT, and failed spectacularly. Tim Kelsey, NHS England’s director of patients and information, is trying to impose standards on hospitals by threatening non-conformists with sticks. I applaud what he is trying to do for standards, but he is in danger of being pilloried unless he goes easy on the sticks. We need somebody who combines a steely determination to impose standards with silky diplomatic skills to persuade hospitals to change their IT culture.