he Five Year Forward View blueprint by NHS England chief executive Simon Stevens, which claims that the NHS could deliver £22bn of annual savings in five years’ time, is the latest of a long line of reports to assert that there is scope for the .  to make major savings.. The previous one was issued in October 2013 by Monitor, one of the NHS’s regulatory bodies, which claimed the NHS could save between £10bn and £18bn by 2021 through greater efficiency and joint working between hospitals.. Such figures illustrate how much of a blind alley the reorganisation of the NHS was, three years ago. Its justification was that . . Health secretary Jeremy Hunt’s recent assertion that the reorganisation had delivered just £1bn of savings is an admission that the reforms had failed.. There now seem to be three plans for the NHS: Stevens’s plan; shadow health secretary Andy Burnham’s plan for the NHS to take over care services; and the Conservatives’ plan, which seems to be to try to improve what we have. Will any of them deliver what is needed and are the demands for extra funding realistic?. Stevens seems to have accepted Monitor’s figure for £30bn of extra funding annually. However, the idea that £22bn of savings will be achieved by 2021 (a 3% year-on-year saving) is not credible if it relies on local initiatives to do so. The various models that have been described will deliver some benefits. However the history of the NHS shows that while there are some great local initiatives these are rarely taken up widely.. Saving 3% a year will also require expertise that many of the 155 .  (hospitals) and 8,000 GP practices will not possess. If they did, many of the savings would already have been achieved.. Such savings over the next seven years will require some compulsion. The current model of essentially independent trusts is fine when there is plenty of money around, but is not a fit-for-purpose model for today’s financial challenges.. However, the last thing the NHS needs is yet another major reorganisation. An alternative would be to create task forces to support hospitals deliver savings. Some could come through simple improvements in practice, .  being given the authority to send people for blood tests and X-rays before they see a consultant or doctor. Other big wins could be single NHS wide structures for the management of procurement, IT and estates.. Where does this leave the NHS’s finances? The £8bn a year that Stevens says the NHS will need by 2021 assumes efficiencies of £22bn a year. There is no chance that any political party will . , so we should expect some radical surgery to the services being provided.