mong the scores of commitments to reform which came tumbling out of NHS England’s .  last week, a picture emerges of how the national bodies are going to leverage reforms among both the high-performers and the strugglers.. At the struggling end, the national bodies have promised to take a joined-up approach to addressing weaknesses across whole health economies rather than separately targeting failing organisations.. With 18 clinical commissioning groups expecting to end the financial year in deficit, and around another 30 perilously close, there will not be a shortage of candidates to test this approach.. The frequent inability of NHS England, the Care Quality Commission, NHS Trust Development Authority and Monitor to coordinate their work around failing organisations and systems is a routine source of complaint among providers and clinical commissioners. When the sharp end of the .  is under ever greater pressure to collaborate and integrate, it seems odd that the national bodies have not been leading by example.. The commitment now is for greater alignment between their assessment, reporting and intervention regimes so that, if necessary, they can deliver a whole system intervention in a particular area.. NHS England clearly sees such an intervention as a lever for reform. The promise is to help areas which are in difficulty with “flexibilities and discretion” on issues such as regulation, pricing and funding systems, but only in support of change.. Such interventions are likely to prove a gruelling experience for clinical commissioning groups (CCGs). Regulators believe that many of the areas in difficulty do not have a clear vision for how they want their local health economy to work, and lack tools such as effective data analysis to make it happen or to understand what is going wrong.. The document says the five-year plans provided by CCGs and trusts suggest that “many areas will need to consider new options” – in other words, NHS England and the regulators think the plans are unworkable and risk local health economies slipping into deficit while being unable to cope with rising patient volumes.. The Five Year View indicates a growing differentiation in the treatment of CCGs, with light touch reporting mechanisms for the high-performing ones and intervention for those who are failing.. The central bodies’ promise of more collaboration should also be evident at the other end of the performance spectrum, in helping the most innovative commissioners and providers design and implement new care models. Again the emphasis is on flexibility in payment systems and regulation, as well as practical help.. So the picture emerges of greater alignment of the national bodies to leverage change with the worst performers and facilitate it with the best.. The leadership role of CCGs in securing service reforms is implicit throughout the Five Year View, but it hardly shouts about it. The offer of greater CCG influence over the commissioning of primary and specialist care remains, but overall the implication is that much of the drive to develop new care models such as a single organisation providing GP and hospital services will come from ambitious providers, including groups of GPs. The role of the private sector goes unremarked.. When it comes to pump priming change, the national bodies have foundation trust reserves in their sights. A significant number of foundation trusts (FT) are sitting on sizeable stockpiles of cash with no plan for what they intend to do with it. At a time when the NHS is pressurising present and future governments to provide more funding, this looks increasingly untenable. There are technical issues around how the spending of FT balances are accounted for – they can make it look like the NHS has overspent its budget – but that is hardly an excuse to sit on reserves indefinitely.. The pressure is on to test new models of care. In a stressed system the risks of failure are high; NHS England and the other national bodies have set themselves a formidable challenge to provide the support, flexibility and skills to allow innovation to thrive.