ver the last few years, patient engagement and patient-centred care have become buzzwords across the health service. .  organisations at all levels across the UK have developed opportunities for feedback and involvement, taskforces have been established, and patient representatives have been recruited. But, while these are all steps in the right direction, they do not produce the results that either the patients, managers or clinicians hope for.. Many healthcare professionals feel that the patients who sit on their committees do not understand the way the system works and have unrealistic expectations of what change can be brought about. Conversely, when they do understand the system, patients are often described as too expert or so far removed from the realities facing new patients that they are unable to make a valuable contribution. Patients who use their positions to identify problems or to complain are commonly viewed as difficult. Often middle-class and retired, many patient volunteers are also derisively described as “the usual suspects”.. All of these critiques have elements of truth but it is also true that, as a patient, the processes into which one is invited can be uninspiring, disempowering and, quite frankly, boring. Many patient and public engagement (PPE) events are designed and scheduled to suit those who work in the system. Patients may be invited in, but it isn’t on their terms. Complaining that it’s only the “usual suspects” who participate says as much about the process used to involve patients as it does about who shows up.. David Gilbert and Mark Doughty of the Centre for Patient Leadership have argued that the transformation of the health service requires a dialogue of equals between patients, clinicians and managerial leaders. Their concept of patient leadership views patients and carers as a vast, untapped resource in the health service that can support, influence and bring about change “at every level of activity and across different settings – not just as part of formal PPE initiatives”.. The concept of patient leadership challenges us to both think and work differently. It recognises that new insights, conversations and ways of doing things in the health service cannot develop in a context in which patients have less power and respect than the healthcare professionals they work with.. Unfortunately, what frequently happens is that PPE initiatives carry on as usual with the patient representatives renamed “leaders”; the relationships and the nature of dialogue, however, go unchanged.. So how can you do things differently? How do you get the unusual suspects to show up? Below are five points to get you started:. Ask yourself why patients would want to come to the meeting that you’re holding and what you hope to gain from having them there. What might make it an interesting and rewarding experience? What will they gain as a result of attending? How will the healthcare professionals treat them? If the patients you invite to your meetings don’t say anything it is not necessarily the case that they have nothing to contribute. Faced with an unfamiliar or intimidating situation, they may well feel uncomfortable voicing their thoughts and opinions.. To be done well, community development and engagement requires the right people with the right skills. Consider whether your staff has the knowledge and aptitude to work with patient communities in a way that keeps their needs and priorities front and centre. If these skills are missing, you’re unlikely to be successful in the long-term.. You wouldn’t expect staff to take on a new role without training – why expect this of patients? To get the best out of patients, you need to mentor and support them, and allow them to understand the complex organisations to which they are contributing. Providing leadership training as well as context-specific information is an important way to show your commitment and enable patients to work effectively across your organisation. You should also consider paying for their time.. Rather than asking patients to attend quarterly meetings or roundtables, consider developing new activities to understand the barriers they face and alternative ways of tackling the problems identified. Open Space events and hackathons provide ways of bringing people together around a shared purpose, while models like Appreciative Inquiry encourage a focus on generating new possibilities rather than what has gone wrong. Even moving a meeting from an afternoon to an evening and holding it outside of the usual meeting room might change the dynamic and allow different people to get involved.. It is easy to complain that only “the usual suspects” have responded to your call for patient reps, but who did you want to show up? It’s important to understand who your patient populations are – where they live their lives, what languages they speak and where they’re from. Rather than setting up a system that asks people to fill in a detailed application form, consider how you can get out into your community and recruit people directly. If you don’t really know who is in your community, find out.. Patients are crucial actors in creating solutions to the challenges facing the health service. But truly patient-centred care cannot emerge by simply adding patients into processes that aren’t working. It’s time to think – and do – things differently.