When a man shows up in her office with a broken wrist, Dr. Tamara Rozental will often suggest that he get his bone density checked for osteoporosis. She often gets a blank stare back.. "I may order the bone density scan and tell them they should get it, but many of my patients don't do it," . l, an orthopedic surgeon at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, says.. That worries her, because a wrist fracture is often the first sign that bones are becoming weaker. If someone middle-aged or older breaks a wrist, it could mean they're on track to break a hip or a vertebra 10 or 15 years later.. "If you have a wrist fracture to me you're automatically at risk of having another fracture later," Rozental, a wrist fracture specialist, told Shots.. And osteoporosis isn't just for women. Up to 25 percent of men over 50 will break a bone due to osteoporosis, and one-third of hip fractures are in men.. But men aren't getting the medical attention that could help protect their bones, Rozental says. In a study published Wednesday, she found that while 53 percent of women over 50 get referred for bone density testing after breaking a wrist, just 18 percent of men did.. And where more than half of women started taking calcium and vitamin D supplements after breaking a wrist, just 21 percent of men did.. Unfortunately, half of the men who did get a bone density test were judged at risk of a second major fracture due to osteoporosis in the next decade.. The study looked at the records of 439 people over age 50 who were treated for a wrist fracture between 2007 and 2012. It was published in the . .. There are a lot factors affecting the risk for osteoporosis, some of which, including family history and genetics, are outside of anyone's control.. But habits can affect bone health, including weight-bearing exercise (good) and smoking and drinking alcohol (both bad).. Rozental says a man who breaks a wrist should ask his doctor if it should be investigated further. "It's a little bit of a wakeup call."