 A difference maker – creating a melting pot of people and ideas, taking a spoon, stirring things around, and seeing if we can do better..  I wanted therapy services and the wider community to benefit from the emergence of cheaper, accessible, consumer technologies, and to see technology benefit from the experience and human support that professionals can best provide. My end goal was to produce a product that benefits society and reduces stigma, improves access and engagement..  To see the integration of digital health into the mainstream healthcare system with a greater emphasis on collaborating with social businesses.. presenting at the .  Datapalooza in Washington DC, US, representing not only my company but considered one of the few who are at the forefront of innovating UK healthcare..  listening to healthcare professionals and sometimes finding the patients’ needs comes last or doesn’t enter the dialogue. Doctor doesn’t always know best..  the culture change needed to help place the patient at the centre and focal point of healthcare..  brilliant. Working in a small team means we juggle roles, tasks, and are constantly learning..  I want to make a positive change on the world. To support and better therapy services by using the technology to hand..  am a businessman and they’re not wrong – but I’m a social businessman, with impact at the core of my ethos and where society profits from what we do..  to recuperate after injuring my leg..  given an opportunity, encouragement, and the right environment, amazing outcomes can be achieved by colleagues..  how I can further increase the social impact of .  and overcome challenges presented as a start-up business including resource and finance.. to chase those dreams and make your footprint on this world. You won’t fall over..  happy and content, reading about how Buddy has impacted not only the individual patients, but the providers and professionals that run them..  Making a positive difference in people’s lives, be it, colleagues, patients or professionals..  Navigating my way through the NHS procurement landscape, trying to find the right individual to speak to..  Reading the Buddy monthly newsletters, seeing the month’s progress summarised and seeing firsthand the impact of Buddy via case stories..  As a social business we offer an affordable product for the NHS, but in turn it can be a struggle to keep our heads above water.