his month, the government will report on the progress that has been made over 2013-14 in the wake of the Francis inquiry into the well-publicised failings of NHS care in Mid Staffordshire. Among other things, there will be much talk of transparency and (as last year’s Berwick report on patient safety urged) the need for a culture of listening and learning across the . .. Public opinion clearly supports this: an . , in the immediate aftermath of the . , asked people – based on their personal experience – what NHS hospitals most needed to improve. The most frequent response was “listening to patients and carers about how services should be improved”. A simple request? Well, it all depends on what you mean by listening.. It is true that, in the past year we have seen an extraordinary explosion of interest in patient stories of care, alongside traditional feedback systems such as the national patient survey programme. The NHS Friends and Family test, a customer satisfaction question now mandated in a wide range of NHS services across England, seems to be rapidly losing credibility as a metric of care quality, while simultaneously becoming a way to collect industrial quantities of unstructured patient comments. Meanwhile, it has become common practice for board meetings across the NHS to precede the order of business with a patient story, almost like saying grace.. At this point, we could engage in a heated debate over the value of stories, and the relative merits of quantitative versus qualitative data. Which is more valid? Which is more likely to highlight issues needing attention, or to stimulate the required action? Can we combine the two for greater impact?. These are worthwhile questions, but here’s the thing. As we bury ourselves ever deeper in methodological debates, we forget the original request from the public: to be better at listening to patients and carers. One senior NHS leader recently claimed that “a data rich health service is a listening health service”, but I would be willing to bet that when they said please listen, the public didn’t mean “please give us another survey to complete”.. So what is required for people to feel they have been listened to? Well, a response to their feedback or concern seems to be the least the NHS could do. I’m disappointed to report that, of . , about two-thirds receive a response from services – which means that one-third still don’t, despite 10 years of trying.. Of course, a good listener will do more than simply nod. They will acknowledge concerns, take action where necessary, and report back on what was done. For example, when a patient posted on Patient Opinion about the attitude of a member of staff at Crosshouse Hospital in East Ayrshire, the hospital responded immediately, with empathy and practical steps. The result, in the patient’s own words, was “positive and constructive … the complete opposite to my experience of making a formal complaint about a . ”. And when a relative raised a concern about the treatment of his mother at East Surrey hospital, the rapid resolution of the issue led him to post again: “The .  has been fantastic!”. And this is where the industrialised collection of patient stories seems to be a very one-sided business. Stories, like data, are being fed into the machinery of the NHS, but little or nothing is coming back to those telling them. And that’s important, not least because one of the major reasons people give for not wanting to raise concerns about their care is the belief that nothing will be done as a result. On the outside, we must all simply trust that some good has resulted. And that doesn’t feel like a listening or transparent health service.