Coalition plans to save £1bn for the .  by reducing unnecessary hospital visits by elderly people are overoptimistic and doomed to fail, a report from Whitehall’s spending watchdog has found.. The National Audit Office (NAO) says that setting up the Better Care Fund, which aims to integrate local health and social care services, will achieve at best a third of that saving.. The shortfall is due to overambitious targets and plans to save money from emergency services which will not be realised, it says. One of the programme’s aims – to reduce emergency admissions by at least 3.5% – will be a struggle when such admissions have risen 47% over the past 15 years, the report concludes.. Auditors said there was “no central programme team, no programme director and limited risk management and no analysis of local planning capacity, capability, or where local areas would need additional support”.. The findings are a setback for the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt, and the local government secretary, Eric Pickles, who have been vocal supporters of the plan.. Margaret Hodge, chair of the public accounts committee, which will question health officials about the report, said planning for the Better Care Fund has been a shambles.. “Successful delivery depends on goodwill and joint commitment but delays and changes to the fund’s design have weakened its credibility with local bodies and lost goodwill. It is deeply disturbing that local government believes the changes to targets and how the fund will be run move the integration agenda backward and not forward,” she said.. The idea behind the plan, due to be introduced in April next year, is to bring together health and social care services – currently funded by local authorities – in the belief that this will reduce the growing pressures on hospitals and help keep people healthier in their own homes.. The project is partly funded by the Department of . , which is to contribute £1.9bn from the £40bn hospital budget from next April in the belief that it will release savings to compensate for the money transferred from the NHS.. The initiative is meant to cut both overcrowding in A&E units and the number of people admitted for hospital treatment. Projects will help keep frail, older people and those with long-term conditions such as diabetes and breathing problems healthier in their own homes and avoid expensive, unnecessary stays in hospital. Ministers described the new approach as vital to keep the NHS sustainable.. The report says initial plans submitted by 151 local health and wellbeing boards in April this year were assessed by auditors as capable of delivering only £55m of savings. After a pause to expand the scope of the fund, fresh proposals were put forward in September and declared by NHS chiefs to be capable of reducing costs by £532m, of which £314m would come off NHS costs, it claims.. That lengthy delay sparked further concerns for auditors who say in the report that the time available for local bodies to make the necessary preparations for the April 2015 start – such as training staff – has been more than halved from 11 months to five. They also note that the changes were opposed by the Local Government Association which believed that they “undermine the fund’s core purpose as promoting locally led integrated care and reduce the resources available to protect social care and prevention initiatives”.. A government spokesman disagreed with the report’s criticism of the early stages of the fund. “This is the most ambitious plan to transform care ever undertaken and we ensured detailed work took place a year ahead of the launch to allow us time to iron out the issues that the NAO itself now acknowledges have been addressed,” he said.