About 22,000 dental patients in England have been urged to report for checks that they have not contracted a blood-borne disease such as HIV, hepatitis B or hepatitis C following “apparent multiple failures” in infection control by their dentist.. NHS England is attempting to trace those treated by Desmond D’Mello, who worked at the former Daybrook dental practice in Gedling, Nottinghamshire, for more than 32 years.. The alarm was raised by a whistleblower in June, with evidence including covertly filmed footage of D’Mello, who is under interim suspension.. NHS England says tests on D’Mello found him clear of blood-borne viruses so there was no risk of infection from the dentist.. However, the continuing investigation has identified that patients seen by him “appear to have been placed at a possible low risk in infection … due to apparent multiple failures in cross-infection control standards while undergoing dental treatment”.. NHS England added that “no findings have been made at this time in respect of D’Mello”.. NHS England has set up an advice line on 03330 142479, which will be open 8am-8pm seven days a week. A temporary community clinic in Arnold, Nottinghamshire, has also been opened to help affected patients.. Doug Black, medical director for NHS England in Nottinghamshire, appealed for all those treated by D’Mello over more three decades to contact health services because “none of us could be assured that these apparent lapses in practice were only limited to the days on which the covert filming was taken”. Screening would involve a discussion with a clinician and might also require a blood test to be taken.. The length of D’Mello’s service at the dental centre meant that “the age of some patient records means it is not possible for us to write to every individual advising them of our recommendation”.. Black said: “We are extremely sorry for the undoubted worry and concern people may feel on hearing this news. I would like to stress … that the potential risk is low but would encourage anyone who has been treated by Mr D’Mello to contact the advice line.”. Services were working to resolve the issue as quickly as possible and would provide support and assistance to those who might be affected.. Covert filming by the whistleblower took place over three days, said Black. “We have written separately to the 166 patients who were filmed without consent to explain what has happened, and offer assurances about the video footage, which remains securely stored while this investigation is running.”. NHS England would not disclose the identity of the whistleblower, Black said. The individual was protected in law. “We continue to offer support for this individual and thank them for bringing these matters to the attention of us all.”. Vanessa MacGregor, consultant in communicable disease control for Public .  England (PHE) in the east Midlands, said testing was being offered as a precautionary measure.. “Effective treatments are available for all blood-borne viruses, which is why it is important to identify anyone who may have been at risk of infection so treatment can be started if necessary,” said MacGregor.. The General Dental Council, which regulates the profession, suspended D’Mello for 18 months in August, meaning he can no longer practise as a dentist. It is now awaiting the outcome of the NHS investigation and any potential police investigation, it said.. The former Daybrook centre is under new ownership by Southern Dental, PHE said. It was “not in any way connected to the incident but has offered ongoing support and co-operation to our investigation”.. Rosemary Gillespie, chief executive at the Terrence Higgins Trust, said: “NHS England has confirmed that the dentist in this case does not have HIV. The suggested risk is likely to relate to dental equipment not being properly sterilised between appointments.. “It is right that these patients have been recalled, but we would reassure anyone who has been contacted that there is next to no risk of HIV being passed on in this way.”