Weight loss surgery helps people with a range of long-term health issues and can drastically reduce overall costs to the . , according to a study out on Monday.. The research found bariatric surgery – often involving gastric bands or stomach size reduction – not only achieves weight loss but can also prevent associated medical complications, improve quality of life and cut costs for the NHS.. Richard Welbourn, consultant surgeon and chair of the National Bariatric Surgery Registry (NBSR), whose study it is, said: “Severe and complex obesity is a lifelong condition associated with many major medical conditions, the cost of which threatens to bankrupt the NHS.. “For severely obese people, medical therapy, lifestyle changes and attempts at dieting rarely succeed in maintaining long-term, clinically beneficial weight loss due to the hormonal effects of being obese.. “Our data shows that there is great benefit from bariatric surgery for all the diseases studied. In particular, the effect on diabetes has important implications for the NHS.”. The newly-published 2014 registry report looked at 18,283 operations performed in 2010-2013 and found that of the people treated, the average body mass index (BMI) was 48.8, meaning they were almost twice the weight they should be for their height.. More than 70% of patients had “functional impairment” meaning they could not climb three flights of stairs without resting. After surgery, more than half of those patients (56%) could manage three flights without resting.. It also found that two thirds of patients with type 2 diabetes before surgery showed no sign of the disease two years later and were able to stop their diabetic medications – a huge saving to the health service.. Clare Marx, president of the Royal College of Surgeons, said: “This audit shows compelling evidence of the cost-effectiveness of bariatric surgery for obese patients.. “Obesity is linked with a number of conditions including diabetes which are not only debilitating for patients but also create a significant financial strain on the NHS.”. She said it was important that bariatric surgery is not seen as an operation that takes place in isolation from other services.. “Surgeons should work closely with their colleagues in hospital and in the community to develop a care plan that supports the long-term health of patients suffering from obesity.”. Writing the forward to the study, Sir Bruce Keogh, medical director of the NHS, said obesity and bariatric surgery were “rapidly rising up the NHS agenda as a consequence of social and lifestyle choices.”. “As in all branches of medicine, prevention is better than cure, but this report clearly demonstrates that, when required, bariatric surgery is effective and safe.. “This is based on detailed data on over 18,000 patients. The survival rate of over 99.9% and the decreasing length of time spent in hospital is all the more impressive given the increasing illness of patients being sent for surgery.”. The NBSR said the report comes at a time when NHS cuts could restrict the number of bariatric operations being carried out in the next year.