he National Audit Office’s (NAO) forensic dissection of the .  fiasco is a harsh lesson in the dangers of ministerial interference in health and care systems under stress.. Its report .  – published this week – exposes how the government mishandled the entire project. The fund was the coalition’s gambit in the battle with Labour over who would integrate the NHS and social care. Launched as a flagship policy in the . , it was a triumph of presentation over strategic thinking – big, bold, long on rhetoric, short on delivery detail and recycling old money as extra funding.. It soon hit trouble. .  England and the Local Government Association (LGA) published guidance on how it would work that December, and all local areas submitted bids by April on how they would spend their cut in 2015-16. Ministers then scrapped the guidance, dumped the bids and restarted the whole process.. The broken wire at the heart of the machine was that the Department of .  and NHS England were planning on securing £1bn of savings on the back of the £3.8bn Better Care Fund, but robust thinking to achieve this was not put at the core of guidance for the 151 local bids.. The quality of the first round of bids was lamentable. Local teams collectively estimated they would save £700m. NHS England reckoned £55m of this was credible, and spotted that teams who had failed to involve local hospitals in drawing up their plans were the most bullish in their savings estimates.. By this time the government was getting caught in a vice of an unrelenting rise in emergency admissions with more and more trusts sliding into deficit. Vocal lobbying by the .  raised the spectre of the cuts in acute budgets to pay for the fund, pushing another slew of hospitals over the financial cliff.. Suddenly a solution was at hand; in the new guidance, the vision for the fund of driving transformational change in health and care services was now abandoned in favour of the convenience of cutting admissions. The NAO reports that the change eroded the goodwill of the LGA because the new approach diverted resources away from care in the community and prevention, and back towards pumping money into hospitals – the underlying weakness in the care system that the original vision for the Better Care Fund had challenged.. At least the management of the programme by the Department of Health and NHS England has now improved; as the NAO tartly observes, this “would have avoided waste and frustration had it been in place from the start”. But the new local savings plans of £523m still have little credibility. They contain “bold assumptions” about the savings next year with planned reductions in emergency admissions, which are themselves based “on optimism rather than evidence”.. The NAO report bristles with irritation at the way the Department of Health, Department for Communities and Local Government and the Treasury repeated basic errors from numerous other cross-government initiatives which went wrong – failure to agree financial and service objectives and spell them out; failure to put in the management, resources, time and contingency planning appropriate for the scale of the project; failure to set out who was responsible for what; and failure to look at the evidence of what works.. The germ of a good idea behind the original Better Care Fund announcement has now set back the shift of resources from hospitals to communities, damaged relations between hospitals and councils and wasted the precious resources of money and management time.. There is too much stress in the system for the next government to embark on similarly ill-thought-through gimmicks. The .  committed to ending ministerial micro-management of the NHS. Now, NHS England, the rest of the health service and local government need to be given the time and space to do the heavy lifting around reform outlined in the . . Everything else is a distraction.