ou’d think .  was busy enough already, what with excoriating the future financial sustainability of the NHS, the state of Britain’s roads, and delays to welfare payments for disabled people, to name just three of the issues on which the public accounts committee she chairs has recently published its trademark scathing reports.. But Hodge, the scourge of public and private sector alike, is stepping out of her Westminster stronghold, metaphorically speaking, to stroll down the river, over Blackfriars Bridge and across to the London borough of Southwark, on the other side of the Thames, to turn from poacher to gamekeeper. She is going to attempt what might just be one of the toughest assignments of a long and already demanding career as a politician, something that has eluded the entire might of some of Whitehall and local government’s brightest thinkers. She’s going to try and bring together local services in a sensible, cost-effective way.. Admittedly, she’s going to try this on a limited scale, in a single London borough. But no-one should underestimate the challenges she faces. As chair of the .  in Southwark, Hodge will look at how the council, NHS, police and voluntary sector can work together to prevent problems that damage people’s lives and trigger demands for expensive services like hospitals and prisons – with ultimate savings for the taxpayer.. On paper, this sounds straightforward. Hodge herself says it is a commonsense idea that “most sign up to in principle”. But she is also supremely well-placed to recognise the challenge of embedding this idea as a real practice and priority, because the move comes just one day after her comments on the National Audit Office report into the epic failure of the departments of health and communities and local government to plan for what is intended to be a groundbreaking plan to . .. If it were easy to pull together health and social care, it would already have happened. Instead, the £3.8bn NHS Better Care Fund policy, intended to bring together health and social care services in the belief that this will reduce growing pressure on hospitals and help keep people at home and healthier for longer, was on11 November .  by Hodge. The scheme was delayed earlier this year and the .  has poured scorn on the calculations by civil servants and local authorities that moving £2bn of NHS budget to social care would save £1bn, as the Treasury had predicted. Instead, the NAO says the fund will save only£314m, potentially leaving the NHS with a £700m black hole.. Hodge said the project had been beset by “unacceptable incompetence”, with only limited attempts to identify and manage risks. It had, she said, been based on optimism rather than evidence.. So far, so Hodge. But a lot of eyes will be on her next year, when the report of the Southwark experiment is published. Even Hodge, with huge experience as both leader of Islington council and MP for Barking and Dagenham, may not find it quite as easy to knock local heads together as she thinks.