f I’m on an early shift I get up at 6.15am, grab a shower and pop on my uniform – a polo shirt, black trousers and trainers. I’m based at one of the charity’s two hospices, Christopher’s, which is in a rural location near Guildford so I jump in the car and travel the five miles from my home and get to work for 7.30am.. People assume children’s hospices are sad and depressing places but as soon as you walk into the building you realise it’s actually a really lovely place to be. It’s like a home from home, filled with toys, games and colour, and most medical equipment is out of sight. Coming to work every day never seems to be a chore but I do make sure I have a green tea before I start to wake me up.. With children’s hospice nursing it’s important to work closely with parents so children feel comfortable in the environment. Each child has a detailed care plan which covers things like symptoms, feeding, bed time and favourite toys and activities to help with this. Once we’ve had a handover from the previous shift, each child is allocated one member of staff for the day and I check the drug charts to see what medication needs to be given, when and to whom.. When I graduated two years ago some people told me to work at a hospital first and learn the basics, and said I’d be deskilled in a children’s hospice. But I have to say I disagree – I’ve seen a huge range of life-limiting conditions at the hospice, right from diagnosis to end of life, and have had the advantage of administering one-to-one care that I’d never experience in a hospital setting. We also benefit from caring for the child and family on a long-term basis, which means we build up a fantastic relationship with them.. Once the children are up, washed and dressed we start the day’s activities, which can be anything from pumpkin carving and cooking, to using the hospice hydrotherapy pool or going on a day trip to the beach. Our activities coordinator plans some great things for us all to do, or we’ll often take the lead from the children and do what they’d like to for the day. The aim is to make every moment count for the child we care for. At lunchtime everyone comes together to eat in the dining room and it feels like we’re a big family, which I love.. We care for children aged 0-19 with a range of complicated illnesses, such as the degenerative condition Duchenne muscular dystrophy and the severe epilepsy disorder Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. The same condition can display differing symptoms and reactions, and each child has very specific needs, so my day can often include mandatory or supplementary training. Our hospice education team ensures we are up to date on paediatric care practices for things such as tracheostomies and ventilators, and I’m due to attend a course for catheterisation and bowel care.. If a child is particularly sick and needs end-of-life care my day will focus on crisis symptom management and I work closely with the family and the palliative care team to manage pain, while supporting the mum and dad through an extremely difficult time. When a child dies it’s obviously really tough and the sad days are hard. Over time I’ve learned to deal with it emotionally by remembering we’ve done as much as we can to help make the child comfortable and have supported the family to the best of our ability – but it’s always difficult.. The best thing about my job is the children – they are superstars. Their life is full of hospital appointments and medications, and every day is a struggle for them, but they are incredibly brave. I feel privileged to be part of what they’re going through and offer care and support – it’s fulfilling to be able to treat them, ease their pain and put a smile on their face by having some fun. My job certainly puts things into perspective; you definitely learn not to sweat the small stuff.. Before leaving for the day at 3pm I’ll hand over to the next shift, and explain how the children have been and what they’ve done. Then I’ll go home, where I share a house with other hospice staff. There is an unwritten rule that we don’t talk shop at home, so we can all switch off from our shift. If I’ve had a particularly bad day I know I can talk to my team leader or supervisor and there are counsellors available to staff who need extra support. If I’m not working at the weekend I see friends and family in my home town, Crawley, and in the summer I spend a lot of my time off at festivals and on holiday, which is my way of really unwinding.