A number of other hospitals in England are likely to be facing severe problems of staff shortages and patient-demand of the scale that prompted the declaration of a major incident at Colchester hospital last week, one of the country’s most senior doctors has warned.. Dr Clifford Mann, president of the College of Emergency Medicine, says hospitals are feeling acute pressure over accident and emergency units, in part because these are often inadequately funded under the system through which the government finances healthcare.. A major incident was declared on Thursday at Colchester hospital in Essex in the wake of a Care Quality Commission inspection that found it was struggling with “unprecedented demand”, the . . Patients were . , routine operations were put off and agency staff drafted in.. While there are particular worries about the way Colchester hospital has been managed, Mann said other hospitals are similarly struggling, and the declaration of a major incident is arguably the only way to get these issues addressed.. “I rather suspect there are many hospitals with very similar pressures, and I think the major incident is simply the most appropriate term for the hospital to draft in emergency supplies, if you like, of extra staff,” Mann told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme. “What we have to stop doing is having short-term funding fixes, because we don’t have the staff out there to be able to recruit high-quality staff on a short-term basis. We have to move to a system where we have enough staff, all the time, on the payroll – permanent staff to provide the quality of care patients rightly expect.”. Mann said the situation at Colchester “highlights almost better than any other story I’ve heard recently the chronic underfunding that is endemic in emergency care, throughout the UK but particularly in England”.. A key element of this, he said, was the system by which hospitals were paid for providing care, which Mann said did not properly reimburse them for emergency services.. “The net effect of that is all hospitals have to do more and more elective work, or planned work, to cross-subsidise the money they’re spending on emergency care,” he said.. “It’s made even worse by the case that since 2009, for every patient you admit in excess of the numbers you admitted in 2009, instead of being paid the already inadequate tariff you get paid one-third of that tariff. So we essentially have a buy one, get two free system, which is penalising acute hospitals.”. While declaration of a major incident at Colchester was related mainly to pressures on services and staff shortages, the Guardian understands concerns were also raised with the CQC about safeguarding issues relating to inappropriate restraint, resuscitation and sedation of elderly people, some with dementia.. At the weekend, the hospital’s interim chief executive, Dr Lucy Moore, said staff were “running a sort of command and control process” to try to regain control over the situation, with a focus on discharging patients where possible.. The Today programme spoke to one patient at the hospital, Christopher Wass, who said he was discharged twice with severe swelling in his leg before he eventually persuaded doctors to do a scan of the limb, in which they found a major blood clot. Of his treatment by staff, he said: “No one talks to me. I just get my medication, no one asks how I am.”