Simon Steven’s .  Five Year Forward view sets out a vision for the future of the health service.. But the NHS chief executive’s vision seems only to be seen by people as related to hospitals and primary care.. In the 1990s, the NHS included integrated community and mental health service providers. The creation of primary care trusts saw community services transfer to them and the establishment of specialist mental health service providers. The end of PCT’s has allowed these integrated providers to re-emerge – as well as new forms such as social enterprises and some transfer to the private sector.. There is a general belief that the future of the NHS will rely on robust community services. But this tends to focus on these services only being provided through hospital or primary care, ignoring the potential of alternative providers.. Hospitals specialising in acute care tend to concentrate on the patients and conditions on a daily basis; managing hospitals of any size is complex and ensuring they run smoothly requires a strong focus on internal matters. For this reason, there is a bias which suggests hospital trusts don’t understand the range and complexity of services that other community providers offer, or the relationships between them. This is nothing to do with capability, but more to do with hospital staff being too busy to delve into these areas. Equally, most primary care organisations are small population focused and driven by who and what comes through their door.. In the middle sit community and mental health providers, which are focused on delivering services to the community and negotiating challenges of service delivery with stakeholders – this includes patients and their families, as well as primary care providers, acute hospitals, local authorities and third sector organisations.. They usually deliver their services to .  within a neighbourhood as well as to the main acute hospital in the area.. I believe that acute hospitals and primary care providers within an area need a community and mental health trust provider, or similar organisation, in order to deliver a wide range of services to the people living there.. The delivery of care requires:.  Well led staff..  Robust governance..  Strong support infrastructures – ie good buildings, and IT and HR facilities – for frontline staff..  Enough money for investment and ongoing development..  The flexibility to align services with the local communities that receive them, rather than a one-size-fits-all approach.. In 2010, Nottinghamshire healthcare NHS trust, which was a mental health trust at the time, bid to be the county’s community services provider as the staff thought the trust’s skills in mental health care were translatable into community services.. At the time, the trust was operating across three key locations: Bassetlaw, mid Nottinghamshire and south Nottinghamshire. There was an acute hospital that provided care across two different county boundaries, a mid-range acute hospital and a major teaching hospital.. Over the years, different services have developed in these areas which are attuned to the populations – in each of these three sub health economies there are very different micro communities, which require different ways of working.. Our bids were developed in conjunction with key primary care representatives and we also introduced the concept of GPs as clinical directors. This has offered community services GP perspective and clinical insight, and has helped GPs get to grips with managing large members of staff at the same time.. Within the area of long-term condition and frail elderly care, our approach has been to introduce new models of multi-disciplinary teams, developed in conjunction with CCGs. Through this, we aim to reduce the risks of admission for key patient groups, and to work with hospitals to ensure that once it is medically safe to discharge a patient, that they are then cared for at home or in a less acute setting.. We have also focused on stretching clinical targets. And our focus on staff has paid off, the NHS national staff survey showed that our staff engagement within our community has soared from below the national average to being in the top 10%. In September 2014, the CQC rated the care the trust provides as good, with an “outstanding” rating for the caring element of the inspection.. Our income has grown from £290m in 2010 to £444m in 2014 – and with this growth and service expansion has come increased influence and the ability to make substantial infrastructure investments. With the current focus on urgent care, delivery of mental health services are a significant component of the solution – it is the community element that is more critical, and as our scale has increased, so has our presence as a trust. But we know that this influence is not about imposing our views: it is about improving our ability to contribute to the present and future challenges that the NHS faces, while maintaining the standard of our services.