One in six GP surgeries in England is at risk of offering patients poor care, including trouble getting an appointment and being given out of date medicine, the .  care watchdog has warned.. About 1,200 practices potentially put patients either at “risk” or “elevated risk” through inadequate care, according to the . .. In its first assessment of all 7,661 GP surgeries in England, the regulator warned that while many are looking after patients well, 1,200 (16%) pose such a concern that they will be visited and assessed under its tough new inspection in the next few months.. Practices that received poor ratings did so because of failings including patients’ difficulty in booking a timely consultation, a lack of practice nurses and too few older patients receiving the winter flu jab.. Other issues highlighted as a potential risk included patients being given medicines or vaccines that were out of date, which could reduce their effectiveness, and a failure to draw up a detailed care plan for someone with mental health problems.. Prof Steve Field, the CQC’s chief inspector of general practice, said he had “concerns” about access to GPs. But he said greater efforts needed to be made to encourage people to look after themselves better and visit a pharmacy more often rather than seeking to see a GP every time they felt unwell. “We’re also sadly finding some very poor practices,” said Field, a former chair of the Royal College of . . “These typically are chaotic, have very poor leadership and a lack of learning culture. They also have a poor skill mix, some don’t have any nurses.”. The CQC reached its conclusions after assessing every family doctor practice against 38 indicators intended to show whether patients there could be at “risk” or “elevated risk” above and beyond what would normally be expected. It then placed every surgery in one of six bandings, from one, indicating it has the most concern about the quality of care and safety standards, to six, which signifies the lowest level of perceived concern.. A total of 6,076 practices were placed in the lowest four bands, including 3,797 in band six. But another 1,200 were put in bands one and two, including 864 (11%) – more than one in 10 overall – into the highest risk category. They will be inspected in early 2015. London emerged as an area of particular concern, with a third of surgeries assessed to be in the top two bands. The initial ratings are based on a system the CQC calls “intelligent monitoring”, which uses a range of information, such as surveys, official statistics and patients’ experience.. The watchdog stressed that “the bandings are not judgements; these only happen following inspection”. But it added: “While CQC can only judge the quality of care within a service once it has carried out an inspection, the analysis indicates which services appear to be doing well, alongside where people may not be receiving high-quality and compassionate care.”. The British Medical Association, the doctors’ union, criticised the bandings exercise as “simplistic”, potentially misleading and likely to confuse patients. “Publishing data with no context about a GP practice before inspectors have even arrived will at best confuse patients and at worst mislead them,” said Dr Richard Vautrey, deputy chair of the BMA’s GPs committee.. “It will not give an accurate picture of how GP services are operating. The information does not take into account the differing circumstances GP practices operate in, including levels of deprivation in the community they deliver care to or the state of their facilities,” he added.. Katherine Murphy, chief executive of the patients’ rights charity the Patients Association, said she hoped publication of the assessments would act as a catalyst for GP practices which needed to improve to do so.. Separately, the Patients Association said it had “no confidence” in the independent NHS ombudsman to investigate individuals’ complaints about the health service..  It released a report into what it claimed were failures by the parliamentary health service ombudsman (PHSO) to handle complaints of poor care by families, who it said had been “let down”. The PHSO, the last resort for those complaining about unfair or poor service from the NHS in England, is undergoing a modernisation scheme and in October revealed it had investigated 2,199 cases in 2013/14 – six times more than the previous year. But Patients Association deputy chief executive Jacqueline Coles, writing in the report, said it had “failed to adapt” to modern demands and the PA would no longer be referring callers on the charity’s helpline to the watchdog.