he debate about the future of the .  is one that lurches between two significant challenges: quality and finance. Quality can be difficult to define and is often subjective. It spans a range of complex issues including safety, patient experience and ultimately the outcomes for patients and their families. No wonder most of us focus on debating cold, hard cash.. If we are to transform health and care what we really need to do is take the debate about money off the table and move back to the real issue that affects us – how to define and deliver a high-quality health and care system in the 21st century.. Along with 21 partners representing NHS leaders, social care, clinicians, staff and patients, we have set out a . , which aims to do precisely that. It includes questions about quality, leadership, engagement, culture, staffing and political will. We often talk about needing more money. The debate needs to move to being about clarity of funding over a longer period; the development of a new incentive structure; and short-term resources to support change.. These will be big themes in my appearance this week in front of the . .. We know the public, the service and politicians all agree on the need to tackle financial challenges. Our .  showed 69% were very concerned about the impact future budget cuts will have on their own organisation; 72% were concerned about the effect on the NHS more generally. The public appear to share this concern, with 88% believing the NHS will face a severe funding problem in the future and identifying lack of resources as the biggest problem facing the NHS.. At the . , we believe that, if we are really to stop debates around money from obscuring the need to radically transform care, then we need health spending plans to be set out for the next 10 years. This would establish a decade deal between an NHS that needs financial certainty to plan health services and taxpayers who demand clarity on how the NHS will be funded in the future.. A 10-year commitment on funding from the government would send powerful signals across the NHS. It would trigger more strategic thinking by encouraging, for example, longer contracting in the NHS, extended pay agreements or new ways of raising capital for innovation. It would also enable commissioners and providers to plan more effectively for the future, to take the long view about what is best for the health of their local communities, without worrying about the uncertain impact of funding settlements around the corner.. To support a decade deal, we also propose establishing an independent body to advise on health spending, something previously put forward by the King’s Fund. The Office for Budgetary Responsibility in .  would support the implementation of 10-year settlements, by establishing a stronger evidence base to spending decisions and providing forecasts on which to make political choices. Funding would continue to rest on the judgment of governments and parliaments but these decisions, and their likely effect, would be made more explicit.. The general election gives us an opportunity to create a compact between the NHS and the public about the amount of money which should be allocated to the health service for the next decade. This would mean conversations that local NHS leaders have with people would stop being dominated by money and instead focus on the real issues. The ones that define the activities of more than 1.4 million NHS staff, 1 million staff in social care, 3 million volunteers and 6 million carers every day. Because what they do will change immeasurably in the next decade and delivering care fit for the 21st century is a burning ambition that we all share..  .  .  