t feels almost obligatory to mention money as soon as you’re saying anything about the NHS nowadays. And, as NHS providers and system leader colleagues head to Liverpool for the . , you can be sure money matters will loom large over the proceedings.. The NHS is in the middle of what looks to be the tightest funding squeeze in its history, with NHS finances rising far more slowly than demand. Of course, the result is real pressure and a system that, worryingly, is becoming increasingly fragile. In the NHS, as anywhere else, you get what you pay for. And we can’t go on failing to have a more honest debate with politicians and the public about some of the tough choices that .  provider leaders are facing as a result.. However, this article isn’t going to be all about money. Because we need to celebrate the NHS’s achievements. As Bruce Keogh and Dame Julie Moore have recently reminded us, we’re in danger of talking ourselves into a slump and we can better meet the challenges we face by focusing on what’s working rather than what’s failing.. As I will say in my conference speech, one of the great privileges of leading the FTN is the frequent frontline visits I make to see how our members are delivering great care, even in these financially trying times. They’re also pioneering the new models of care and clinical innovations the Five Year Forward View rightly promotes. Indeed, it is NHS foundation trusts who are uniquely placed to drive these changes and improve patient care.. The way, for example, that ambulance services like South West ambulance service are successfully extending their role beyond transporting patients to becoming a genuine mobile treatment service, as well as delivering the 111 gateway to the full range of NHS services. They’re treating many more patients at home, and preventing unnecessary admissions to hospital by directing people to other services that can better meet their needs.. Community care providers are working smarter as well, like the multidisciplinary Pace community team I met at Central and North West London, working with the Royal Free hospital and local GPs; and the Oxleas mental health joint emergency team working with Greenwich borough social services and local primary care services. Both are now providing a new kind of seamless, integrated care that crosses the artificial boundaries between primary, community and secondary care and between health and social care. Using newly created, genuinely multi-disciplinary teams they now provide a holistic assessment of a patient’s physical, mental and social health needs all in one go. And a holistic, integrated, care package to then meet those needs.. And there’s the humbling and inspiring work of the paediatric heart surgery team I watched in action at Birmingham children’s hospital eight weeks ago who had been doing open heart surgery on a tiny baby for seven hours when I caught up with them. A baby whose heart arrested five days later, requiring the surgeon to hold her heart in his hand through her open chest for four hours to get the heart to restart and continue beating. A baby that was then put on an ECMO machine, which essentially takes the heart out of the equation by circulating the blood round the body and through the brain via a machine. A treatment that two years ago was simply not available but now has a 50% success rate.. What unites all these experiences is, of course, extraordinary staff, managers and leaders doing extraordinary things 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to provide outstanding patient care. Individuals whose commitment, professionalism and expertise we should honour, recognise and celebrate more frequently.. So, amid the Five Year Forward View, the 2015-16 tariff and the Dalton reviews, the things we often talk about, we should never forget to celebrate the extraordinary successes of an NHS that is rightly recognised as the best healthcare system in the world and one of our proudest national achievements..  .  