his month marks one year since the .  following the failings at Mid Staffs. This report highlighted the need, across the NHS and social care, to recognise the importance of people’s complaints and to measure whether the subsequent actions were really making a difference.. We have been working with the local government ombudsman (LGO) and Healthwatch England to look at what makes good complaint handling across health and social care. Our research found that, while some reported positive experiences, others were deeply dissatisfied and felt their complaints made no difference.. It doesn’t matter how efficient or effective a complaints system is if the environment and culture surrounding it discourages people from making a complaint. What is clear is there are still considerable barriers, which require a fundamental change in culture.. This is clearly reflected by Evan, a cancer patient, who felt he had been spoken to insensitively.. “You get worried that you may be victimised even more for making a complaint. You are very vulnerable in this situation,” he said. “Every complaint you make is spread throughout the hospital. Complaining is risky – it makes you even more vulnerable than you already are.”. Healthwatch England, the LGO and ourselves have worked with patients and service users to create . . This report describes an ideal complaints journey, as part of a drive to change complaint handling across the health and social care sectors.. Why is it so groundbreaking? First, it places the patient’s or service user’s experience at the very heart of defining good complaint handling. It describes, in their language, how a good experience of raising a concern or complaint should feel.. In the report, a statement perfectly sums up what health and social care organisations should aspire to: “I felt confident to speak up and making my complaint was simple, I felt listened to and understood, I feel that my complaint made a difference.” Patients and the public will know what to expect when they want to raise a concern or complaint and can use the statements to challenge where the .  falls short.. Second, this report can be adopted and adapted by the entire health service, from dental practices to ambulances, from GP surgeries to acute hospitals. This is the first time the parliamentary and health service ombudsman (PHSO), the LGO and Healthwatch have got together to enable that to happen.. Third, it has the backing of key organisations. The expectations are consistent with the assessment framework used by the Care Quality Commission in its inspections of health and adult social care services in England. Working with the CQC, how a trust improves the quality of care will inform Monitor’s view of whether a trust meets its requirements of being well-led.. NHS England has welcomed the “I statements” – expressions of what patients and service users might say if had a good experience of making a complaint – and is committed to their use in the way it handles complaints and also in its commissioning arrangements. It will explore whether these can be incorporated into the planning guidance for the NHS in 2015-16 and also in its routine survey of people who have complained. NHS England will also work with directly commissioned services to see how the statements can be used at a local level.. LGO, Monitor and PHSO will also use the expectations for complaints about their organisations.. For staff on the frontline, it could be used as an induction tool for new employees and incorporated into a handbook when dealing with a concern or complaint. The work helps staff to put themselves in the shoes of patients and service users and give them an understanding of how making a complaint might feel.. We will now work with regulators, commissioners and providers to develop measurement tools to establish areas they need to improve, take the necessary action to get there and see if they have succeeded in delivering a better experience. Actions may include new policies, procedures, training, performance management, communications with staff and users or methods of investigation. I want to stress this is not about the three organisations being prescriptive and dictating actions: each service organisation will want to reflect on its individual patients and users, before determining the most appropriate action.. The General Medical Council and Nursing and Midwifery Council recently released draft guidance to support doctors, nurses and midwives in fulfilling their professional duty to be open and honest about mistakes. It is clear a strong momentum is building across the whole of the health and social care sectors to make significant and long-lasting improvements to the experiences of patients and service users.