he older I get, the more irritable I become. This week’s cause for irritability is the stupidity of both the pro-privatisation lobby (the government and red-necked Conservatives, who want to privatise everything that moves) and the anti-privatisationists (the “keep your mucky capitalist hands off our perfect NHS” ranters).. Both parties ignore the failures of their own side. The pro-privateers forget about the appalling conditions in many private care home chains. The antis forget about Mid Staffs and the 14 hospital trusts put on special measures. Sir Mike Richards, chief inspector of hospitals, told the Independent that . , and would never consider asking effective hospitals for help. I wonder whether privatisation is the only cure for such basket cases.. The pros and antis also ignore that both sides can give excellent services and can learn a lot from each other. But do they?. My own view in the competition debate is fuzzy. When the antis rant on about vast chunks of the NHS being sold off to the private sector, I find little evidence of this sell-off in my own frequent flights into .  care.. The only privatisations I have noticed are minor and beneficial. When I need a blood test, I used to have to trek to my local hospital (four miles away), and the result would come back five days later. My GP surgery now uses a private phlebotomy service. This happens in the surgery (two miles away) and I get the results the following day. What’s not to like? It’s a better service than the previous NHS one, and free. Frankly, my dear, I don’t care a damn if it is private, and the evil providers of the service may (or may not) be motivated entirely by profit. It is better for me, the patient.. Earlier this year, my right knee seized up, and my GP referred me to . , which showed that the earliest consultation I could get was at a nearby private hospital, with a moonlighting consultant from our local tertiary-care star NHS hospital. So I trotted along, and was impressed that he called for an immediate x-ray, which I got on the spot and was better quality than previous NHS x-rays I had had on the same knee. This was all for free, paid for by the NHS.. The consultant said that I ought to have a partial knee replacement, and I was booked in for the operation two months later, which would have involved three days in a luxurious private hospital, all at the cost of the NHS. I was gobsmacked.. I have not had the operation yet, as my heart started playing up, and I thought it unwise to have an op until it functioned properly again. In the meantime, I had treatment from an osteopath to get rid of the immediate pain in the knee, and this seems to have had the right effect, at least temporarily. The osteopath is a private sector provider, and I had to pay him, but he works from my local GP surgery. This makes him part of a mixed private/NHS partnership, which seems to benefit the patient: surely that is all that matters in a world which is supposed to “put the patient first”.. It seems to me that there are two big snags to competition in the NHS. One is that private sector companies will walk away if they find they are making a loss, leaving the patient stranded. So, any service, like GPs, where continuity is essential to the patient, should not go to private companies on short contracts.. The other is that any tendering process is expensive and lengthy, and gets the commissioners hopelessly tied up in contract law. It also favours snake-oil salesmen from intergalactic rip-off merchants, who understand marketing better than solid NHS incumbents and specialist charities.. My view of competition is that a bit of it is useful, to keep sleepy and smug NHS bureaucrats and clinicians on their toes, but too much of it could destabilise the whole edifice. The private sector management at Hinchingbrooke seems to have been good, and has taught us one or two things about running a hospital. But I have my doubts about letting the private sector provide cancer care for the whole of the Midlands, or care for the elderly in Cambridge: two projects which are on the cards. Too much would be at stake and the new bodies would have to interact effectively with too many other bits of the NHS. Chaos could ensue.. To me, it is infantile to paint the private sector as wholly black or wholly white. Real life is just shades of grey.