NHS staff were denied a 1% pay rise for 2014/15 following the government’s decision to ignore the independent Pay Review Body (PRB) recommendation. Increasing salaries by this amount would add £500m to the pay bill. This means 60% of NHS staff and 70% of nurses won’t get a pay rise for the next two years. Workers in England who are members of Unison . . Of those who voted, 68% were in favour of being prepared to take part in a strike while 32% said no. The ballot also asked if members were prepared to take part in action short of strike action; 88% agreed while 12% voted against.. Members of health unions representing more than 450,000 workers across the NHS will strike for four hours on 13 October over pay. This will be followed by a four-day work-to-rule across the NHS and a ban on overtime in the ambulance service. Urgent medical care will still be provided, but all routine operations and other procedures are likely to be affected. Members of the .  on 20 October.. There were .  in June 2014.. Once a year, organisations are invited to submit evidence to independent pay review bodies – . , .  and . . They analyse the evidence and make recommendations to the government, which then decides whether to accept and implement. The recommendations tend to be published towards the end of the financial year. Pay awards usually take effect from 1 April each year.. There was a two-year pay freeze after the coalition government came to power, followed by a 1% pay cap for all public sector workers in 2013/14 and 2014/15. Those earning below £21,000 during the pay freeze received a £250 pay rise.. In March, the health secretary Jeremy Hunt announced that he was . . Instead, he would give a 1% non-consolidated increase only to staff at the top of their band. Because the award is non-consolidated it will not count towards pension entitlements or shift pay and will be wiped away at the end of March 2016, meaning wages will go back to their April 2013 level. Those below the top of their band - some 600,000 people - will receive no cost of living pay rise.. Although the PRB recommended last year that all NHS staff should receive a 1% pay rise, .  because those already getting an incremental pay rise, according to length of service or experience, were already getting a boost to their pay.. In England there is a grading structure of nine pay bands. Each .  based upon the development of the individual. In order to achieve the maximum pay for the relevant band, members of staff have to develop skills and competencies. The number of increments varies according to which band you are in. There is a new gateway at each incremental point and every year you have to demonstrate that you are at the appropriate level of competency to be moved up an increment. As an example, band 5 is entry level for university graduates. Increments go up as follows: £21,478, £22,016, £22,903, £23,825, £24,799, £25,783, £26,822, £27,901. In this case, it would take seven years to get to the top of the scale that is seen as the appropriate payment for that position.. Currently, more than half of .  staff receive increments or other annual pay progression that can increase their pay on average by around 3%, in addition to whether or not the government decides each year to increase overall public sector pay. The number of staff receiving increments is reducing as more staff reach the top of their pay bands, which is when annual increments usually stop.. Pay .  are different to the rest of the NHS, and vary according to which country they work in – England, Wales or Scotland. The organisation responsible for collating and releasing average pay across the NHS is the . . The BMA is the body responsible for negotiating with NHS Employers on . . How pay is structured, in terms of increments, clinical excellence awards etc depends on each type of doctor.. There is no fixed framework for very senior pay and decisions are taken at board level. Many organisations still submit to the Senior Salaries Review Body to provide evidence around the issue.. In 2012, average pay (including basic pay plus additions such as overtime) was: £30,564 for a nurse, £36,130 for a qualified paramedic, £47,702 for a manager and £109,651 for a consultant, according to NHS Employers.. In 1999 there was a proposal to create a new modernised pay structure – . . The idea was to deliver fair pay for non-medical staff based on the principle of “equal pay for work of equal value”, provide better links between pay and career progression, and harmonise terms and conditions of service such as annual leave, hours and sick pay, and work done in unsocial hours (in most cases, weekends, 8pm to 6am on weekdays, and bank holidays). The Agenda for Change system, introduced in 2004, allocates posts to set pay bands, using the . . it covers almost all NHS nurses, administrators, porters and other staff who are not medical (doctors), very senior managers or agency staff. Rates for .  differ.. The last . . Nurses went .  and the first major national dispute was the ancillary workers’ strike in 1972.