here has been much hyperbole in recent months about the integration of health and adult social care. Pooled budgets and new structures have been offered as a remedy for some of the major challenges we face across the two systems: rising hospital admissions, fragmented care, and exponentially increasing pressures on local authority budgets being just a few.. As the NHS England chief executive, Simon Stevens, . : “No one should pretend just combining two financially leaky buckets will magically create a watertight funding solution.” But the preoccupation with structure and funding omits a key piece of the integration puzzle: culture. Without attention to the way that professionals and systems “talk”, relate, prioritise and generally see their worlds and those of others, we reduce the chance of realising integration aspirations. Culture is the essential glue for making integration happen.. A .  from my organisation, the College of Social Work, produced in partnership with the Royal College of General Practitioners, explores how GPs and social workers can work to change culture. Drawing on a range of evidence, including several successful English case studies, it argues that by letting social workers and GPs lead we will be more likely to deliver efficient, high-quality personalised care. Social workers and GPs can be an important lynchpin of whole-system reform.. In one example from Harrow, multi-disciplinary groups are attached to “clusters” of GPs, with social workers focusing on situations where there are complex care and health needs. This partnership approach helps keep people out of hospital and living independently in their own homes for longer. Individuals have more choice and control over decisions about their care. Through access to a range of professional resources, health concerns are not separated from wider issues such as families, housing and lifestyle.. While the economic benefits of keeping people out of hospital are obvious (a one-night stay in an acute hospital costs more than a hotel room at the Ritz), there is an incalculable human impact on someone who is able to stay in their own home and, with support, manage their health and care needs in a way that works for them. This is not just because of good service design. At least as critical is the capacity for professional groups to understand how their colleagues in different disciplines “tick”, as well as the context of the work. As one GP told us: “The greatest benefits from [working together]… have been the breaking down of barriers and forging links”.. Social workers and GPs are at the boundary between health and social care, so can provide common leadership for integration. Investing in their ability to lead new types of partnership can release more efficient resources and knowledge. To borrow a phrase from Pierre Bourdieu, this building of local “cultural capital” is a pre-requisite for bringing integration to life.. We still at times occupy parallel universes. In social care, the current talk is all about implementing the Care Act, but I know from talking to doctors that the principles (let alone the detail) of this transformative new legislation remain “foreign” and unknown to those working in health.. While getting the structure and funding of health and care services right is important, we ignore culture at our peril. As Peter Drucker, the management guru, famously and wisely observed, “culture eats strategy for breakfast”. In this case, it is true. We simply cannot afford to work in silos.. So in our rush to get the architecture of health and social care integration right let’s concentrate more, with service users and carers, on the “hows” of successful integration. It is the glue of common culture, language and priorities that will really shape our ability to change lives.