I am 40 years old. I am a doctor. I am a mother. I am recovering from that most British of things – the silent breakdown. I had been a GP in the .  for 10 years when I had the chance of a sabbatical. My husband was offered a new job, and while I settled my family into a new life abroad I would embark on a project I hadn’t previously had the time to do. A break from clinical practice has meant leaving my patients and I still feel the relentless thwack of guilt I beat myself with. It’s not because I am indispensible, but because I can now see, when I look back, that like many of my hard working, compassionate colleagues, I was heading for burnout.. We are all told we have a professional obligation to seek help if we’re not coping; the scary truth is I didn’t notice. I just felt enormous guilt that I was struggling with the ever-increasing demands. Now I can see that I was pouring more and more of myself into work and losing perspective. So I am no longer on the journey beside the man who clutched my hand, his eyes imploring me to chase death from the room as it inched its fingers across the pillow towards him. I am no longer providing the safe space for the young mum to cry at the unfairness of her terminal diagnosis – so desperate to continue to provide love and care to her children. And, I am not helping rebuild the life of the 14 year old who presented with acne but unravelled her story of abuse at the hands of her stepfather. Ten minutes per patient, at least 40 times a day. The paperwork had started to feel like Harry Potter’s invitations to Hogwarts; letters flowing down the corridors, seeping under the window frames. They threatened to drown us all in demands to chase results, deliver diagnoses, organise referrals, or tell us there was nothing more that could be offered.. I used to lie in bed in the dark at the end of a 12 hour day, hoping that resting was as good as sleep. Thoughts churned in my head. I replayed conversations. Had I said the right thing? Could I have done more? Should I have done it differently? What was happening with that man’s leg – the MRI was okay, what was I missing? Had I remembered to … oh no, I’d forgotten. I’d leap out of bed to turn on my laptop to check something that could wait except there wouldn’t be time tomorrow. I’d slip back in beside my husband apologising that I’d woken him but knowing he hadn’t been asleep. He’d been worrying about me but didn’t know what to do.. “I don’t want this anymore.” I whispered.. He put his arms around me, reaching through my isolation.. “This can’t go on.” he said. “I’m taking the job.”. We made plans to leave.. I do not wish for sympathy. Doctors know better than anyone that many others are worse off than we will ever be, but this is exactly what makes it so hard to care for yourself. I believed my own story about taking a few months to pursue a different interest, and was more surprised than anyone to watch myself crash once I’d stopped work. .  and I am horrified because only now do I realise the extent of the casualties. I also now know that I am one of them; the NHS falling apart has cost me dearly financially, psychologically and in terms of my career.. There will be blame heaped upon doctors for not doing more to save the NHS. But how can we speak up, and change a system when we are exhausted and firefighting? Burnout advice in medicine focuses on the individual recognising symptoms and seeking help. This is stupidity. In the army it is the leaders who know their troops and look out for battle fatigue. Soldiers also have regular breaks from frontline duty with an expectation that they will return. I read that Mother Teresa believed that every few years her nuns should take a year off to allow them to heal from their care giving work. My prescription for a new NHS would have structured career breaks; doctors could be redeployed in teaching, policy, research or management where their skills and experience could feed back into the UK’s healthcare system. When they returned to clinical work they would have a new perspective and real ownership of what they helped build. .  also need proper management and leadership; it is time to stop pussyfooting around the old adage that “managing doctors is like herding cats”. We are not infallible; great people management is not about bossing or imposing endless restructuring but should be about recognising skills, encouraging innovation, and knowing when and how to support your best frontline staff.