n 2012, the chief secretary to the Treasury, Danny Alexander, outlined reforms to the “old and outdated” private finance initiative (PFI) model, promising that the coalition had “learned the mistakes of its predecessors”.. The proposals came after a searingly critical report on the PFI by the Commons Treasury committee and an upsurge in hostile media attention following the financial collapse of an .  trust in south London, in which two large PFI contracts had played a major role.. Both deals (which had been approved to go ahead in the dog days of John Major’s Conservative government) had proved expensive for the NHS, but profitable for the firms involved. One of them offered annual returns to investors of 71%. By 2012, being seen to reform the PFI had become a political imperative for the coalition.. The model that has emerged has the unimaginative title of private finance 2 (PF2). In the NHS, a £432m plan for Sandwell and West Birmingham hospitals NHS trust will be the first PF2 project, which incorporates some changes to the way projects are financed.. Our new report looks at what impact the reforms will have on the cost of projects for the authorities that use it. We conclude that the move from PFI to PF2 is likely to make it more, rather than less, expensive to deliver new healthcare facilities in the future.. The major changes to the model reflect the government’s desire to encourage new types of investors – pension funds and life insurance companies in particular – to lend to projects, replacing the large banks that withdrew from the market in the wake of the financial crisis.. To make this happen, the government has to convince these risk-averse firms that PF2 projects can provide stable and predictable returns. Their solution is to require the construction companies that tend to lead such projects to invest more of their own money as equity, which acts as a buffer against the risk borne by lenders.. This allows the government to maintain the core advantage of the private finance model, to allow investments to happen now while deferring their budgetary impact to the future, when future ministers and taxpayers must bear them. But the effect is also likely to be an increase in the cost of private finance faced by public authorities because equity carries a higher rate of return than loans.. The budgetary incentive for government and individual NHS trusts to pursue private finance remains strong in the new PF2 world – and this is especially so in the current fiscal environment. After accounting for depreciation, public capital budgets are just 1.4% of GDP in the current financial year, down from 3.4% at the end of the last decade. The reduction in the investment is without precedent.. In this context, many NHS trusts face the choice of a crumbling hospital or an expensive (and potentially unaffordable) project. Many will opt for the latter – and their managers will still sleep soundly at night, knowing the financing model they are using is the only game in town, as it has been since the PFI was introduced by Norman Lamont in 1991.. The incentive to do so is strong in an era in which markets and competition are changing the behaviour of healthcare providers. NHS trusts may well see large capital investment projects as a means of enhancing their market power, and thus their claim on the financial resources of the local health economy.. If that is so, and managers can persuade healthcare commissioners to support them, they are likely to focus less on how their investments are financed and at what cost.. When the bill becomes due, however, the response of NHS managers is typically to reduce the amount spent on staff and equipment. The result is that the clinical capacity of many hospitals is restricted relative to what would be possible in the absence of PFI charges.. The PF2 reforms do nothing to change this. In the context of unprecedented fiscal constraints, there is a high risk that unaffordable contracts will be entered into by NHS trusts, further impacting on scarce resources. As the cost of capital on PF2 projects will be higher than that on an average PFI project before the financial crisis, the impact may be even greater.. Far from tackling the “PFI mess” ascribed to its predecessors, the coalition government is setting the scene for another.