 get up about six most mornings, a bit earlier if I’m travelling down to London. I always have breakfast before I leave the house or I don’t function very well. I’ve got four sons, so in term time there’s a lot of running up and down stairs to make sure they are up before I leave for work – they’re old enough to sort themselves out but not great at waking up!.. Mondays and Fridays I’m in surgery and we open at 7.30am. I’m a partner in a busy practice with 12,500 patients in central Blackpool – a very deprived area – so we see a lot of psycho-social problems along with the medical ones. On a Monday I’m usually duty doctor which means that I, along with a nurse practitioner, deal with all the patients who contact the surgery. On an average Monday that can be more than 160 patients so it’s non-stop and lunch is a sandwich at my desk, often while on the phone to patients. It’s a big challenge balancing people’s need to be seen quickly with having enough time to sort their problems out properly.. The rest of the week I spend on my other roles as a commissioner – I’m the co-chair of NHS Clinical Commissioners (NHSCC), the independent membership body for clinical commissioning groups (CCGs), and I’m the chief clinical officer for .  Blackpool CCG.. I’ve been a GP for 19 years now, always part time. For many years I just worked as a part-time GP as I had four young children at home. As they got older I took on more work and that’s when I got involved in commissioning. About eight years ago I became medical director of the local primary care trust and I’ve been leading the CCG since its inception.. In Blackpool we have some enormous challenges trying to improve the health of the population, which is poor – male life expectancy is the worst in the country – and delivering high-quality health services, and balancing the finances.. At the moment our priorities include tackling respiratory disease, improving identification of, and support for, patients with dementia and improving mental health services. We’re also introducing some new ways of delivering care outside of hospital so that we can care better for people, especially frail elderly people with complex medical problems, in their own homes.. I’m passionate about the benefits of commissioning being led by clinicians so jumped at the chance to become involved with NHSCC which influences the system at a national level. As an organisation we represent the issues that matter to our membership, and for me that can mean attending meetings with national decision-makers and key stakeholders, fielding media enquiries, and speaking at conferences on behalf of our members.. Balancing the local and national work is important and I try to make sure I keep in close contact with our member practices in Blackpool.. I love my job(s) but finding the time to fit everything in is a constant juggle – meetings are frequently in London so I spend a lot of time on trains, but I’m getting better at organising things and make sure I fit a lot into the days when I am in London – I’m also never without my iPad so I can work on the train.. Although work often encroaches on my evenings as I sit and deal with emails in the kitchen, I try to keep weekends work free. My sons, now aged 17, 18, 19, and 21, mean life is never very quiet, and weekend mornings for many years have been spent on the side of a rugby, hockey, or cricket pitch. Weekend evenings are for relaxing, maybe out with friends or at home. I’m not much of a TV watcher but I love to read, especially with a glass of wine.. I’m asleep as soon as my head touches the pillow!