The collapse in social care is “threatening to drag down the NHS”, the shadow health secretary, .  has warned.. Political neglect of social care and a lack of investment in the sector has led to huge pressure on hospital accident and emergency departments, he told an event on health and social care integration organised by the Fabian Society and Age UK in London on Thursday.. “There isn’t a recognisable social care service of the kind that we need. Statistics about A&E are intrinsically bound up with [the] collapse in social care,” said Burnham.. During the course of this parliament, around a quarter of a million older people had lost social care support in the home, he said, and social care is increasingly absent in some parts of the country.. “That’s now having a financial and operational impact on the .  because hospitals are becoming increasingly dysfunctional … we’re at a point now when we’re on the brink,” he added.. The consequences, he said, were that hospitals were having to spend more money on agency staff to cope with rising demand. In prime minister’s questions on Wednesday, David Cameron . . He told MPs that 429,000 people attended A&E units across England last week, the equivalent of 3,000 more patients every day than under the last government. Burnham’s comments come at a time when there are calls for extra funding for the health service. Thinktank the King’s Fund this week . . Simon Stevens, chief executive of NHS England, has said that . .. Burnham said it is cheaper to support people at home than spend thousands of pounds keeping them in hospital, but admitted that the current system in .  was not capable of doing that.. He said: “It’s irresponsible to give the NHS real terms increases if the way you pay for it is to raid local government and social care. That is exactly what has come to pass in the NHS.”. Burnham championed health and social care integration as the only way to create and ensure a financially sustainable system. He said that money had to be supplied in a meaningful way to make sure the financial incentive in the system supports people at home.. He underlined the importance of a single budget for health and social care. “The only way to build a truly person centred health and social care system in the 21st century is to apply the NHS principle to all care,” he said. “Everyone contributes but everyone’s covered. That is the answer because in the ageing century it’s not going to be possible to keep disaggregating people’s needs into different silos.”. Responding to Burnham’s comments, a Department of .  spokesman said: “We have given an extra £1.1bn to councils to help protect social care services this year — that’s on top of additional funding in recent years. The Care Act and our £5.3bn Better Care Fund, the first ever programme to join up health and social care, will focus on helping people to live independently for as long as possible, helping prevent people from needing more support and reducing pressure on A&E.”