It’s been a bittersweet week for NHS providers – the hospital, mental health, ambulance and community .  trusts and foundation trusts who treat a million patients every 36 hours and are the backbone of our national health service.. Last week, the . , which sets the prices healthcare providers will be paid next year for undertaking most hospital-based procedures, was confirmed. The tariff also sets the benchmark for the block contracts under which most mental health, community and ambulance based care is delivered.. The tariff announced on Thursday requires a fifth successive year of aggressive efficiency savings – a further 3.8% next year. There were also additional cuts to the amount paid by NHS England via its specialised commissioning budget for treating some of the most vulnerable patients with complex and rare conditions.. There was a small ray of light: the dreaded marginal rate for emergency admissions under which hospitals are only paid 30% of the cost for some of the emergency patients they treat is to be raised from 30 to 50%. But the overall picture is one of yet more risk and financial pressure being piled on to those on the frontline of NHS care.. On Sunday, however, . , which is being unveiled formally on Wednesday. Importantly, there seem to be no new performance commitments and a clear steer that £1.5bn will be treated as general funding to pay for the increasing demands that NHS providers face. But what does the combination of these two announcements mean?. The current financial situation for NHS providers looks increasingly fragile. The number of NHS providers recording a financial deficit has leapt from 25 two years ago and 66 last year to 141 today, representing 58% of the entire sector and 81% of all acute hospitals. Worryingly, these deficits have spread from a small number of challenged hospitals to include those that are clearly led well and have always been strong performers in the past.. The deficit contagion is also spreading to the previously exempt mental health, ambulance and community sectors which have also had to cope with cuts to local authority budgets and changes in commissioning decisions and structures. Nearly a quarter of the foundation trusts in these sectors, in aggregate, are now in deficit.. Clearly, this is unsustainable. We argued in our recent .  that “providers have to be paid a fair price for the services for which they are commissioned so they can sustain, and invest in developing, the quality of care we all expect”. The provider leadership task must be deliverable – an averagely performing foundation trust or trust has to be able to stay in surplus and carry a reasonable level of risk. Any financial bailouts should be exceptional or temporary rather than a permanent feature of the landscape. And, in a world where providers are being asked to co-lead complex transformation of their local health and social care economies, the day-to-day operational task has to be reasonably sized.. The current financial year looks difficult enough for providers. The period 2015-16 was looking impossible given the toxic combination of rapidly rising demand and costs; the introduction of the Better Care Fund, changes to public sector pensions; and £1bn of unfunded extra staff costs effectively mandated by the Francis report, CQC inspections and new Nice guidance.. So, George Osborne’s announcement of an extra £2bn for the NHS in 2015-16 is particularly welcome. It’s a clear response to the concerns that we and others in the NHS have raised that, without extra funding, the quality of patient care could be compromised and the entire provider sector placed at risk of financial failure.. But the devil will be in the detail. A key decision must be made in December on how that extra £1.5bn to be spent on general funding will be split between providers and commissioners; between clinical commissioning groups and the specialised commissioning budget; and between the mental health, ambulance, community and hospital sectors.. We need funding to reach providers quickly using mainstream NHS funding mechanisms, so they can start planning as soon as possible. We also need to avoid money “sticking to the sides” before reaching the frontline as it appears to have done with some of the in-year, one-off, funding injections.. We also need to recognise that £2bn extra on a total health budget of £115bn is not a magic wand. But at least it makes a previously impossible challenge look possible, albeit extremely stretching..  This article was amended on Wednesday 3 December 2014 to correct the number of NHS providers recording a financial deficit