en pushers, bean counters, faceless bureaucrats, stuffed shirts, spreadsheet monkeys, grey suits … are all terms that I have heard applied to the national health service's finance staff. I am one of the "bean counters" and until recently it was largely a case of sticks and stones for me. We are an easy target for vote-hungry politicians keen to show how they can save a few bob for the public purse. But peer beyond the lazy rhetoric and it is possible to appreciate that, although we might not be the ones caring for patients, we have a crucial part to play in ensuring that a vast organisation faced with rising demand and a finite level of funding uses its resources wisely. It can be the difference between whether some patients get the care they need or not.. The NHS is in the final year of a four-year challenge to save £20bn. This is dressed up as "efficiency savings" and "cost improvement programmes" but in reality it means cuts to services, staff pay freezes and pensions "reform". That's not enough for NHS England, though, which estimates that the NHS needs to find a further £30bn of savings by 2020-21. In the meantime, the government has the cheek to pretend that .  funding has somehow been ringfenced.. The NHS continues to pay a high price for the banking crisis of 2008. And the NHS's finance function busies itself with finding more ways to save money.. It has not always been this way. Back in the autumn of 1990 I was interviewed for a place on the East Anglian regional health authority's financial management training scheme. Only a few months out of university and full of youthful idealism, I assured the two man panel that I wanted to work in the NHS because of its public service ethos.. Over the last 24 years I have been lucky enough to work with a diverse range of staff in many different parts of the NHS around the country from substance misuse services for heroin addicts in Scunthorpe, to maternity services for women in Kensington and Chelsea. I have provided financial advice to a host of doctors, nurses and service managers and guided them through baffling spreadsheets and often impenetrable jargon to enable them to best use the resources at their disposal (time, money and human beings) to deliver the highest quality of care for their patients. I have always tried to maintain an empathy with the healthcare professionals on the frontline and to never lose sight of the fact that the NHS exists, not to make a financial return, but to improve the health of the patients. But I have never felt so disillusioned with my profession as I have over the last 12 months.. The .  and Social Care Act of 2012 has made it so the NHS can be chopped up and packaged off to private health companies. Between April and December 2013 over £5bn worth of NHS services were put out to tender with 70% of the 400 contracts awarded to a private sector provider; from cancer services in the east Midlands to psychological therapies in Barnet. Yet finance managers appear reluctant to speak out about the changes. The NHS is "unaffordable" is the oft-repeated justification for these cuts. It is not though. Nowhere do I hear one of the NHS's highly paid finance directors speaking out about the damage done by these financially driven reforms.. I have struggled to grasp the reasons for this apathy among finance staff. Have we swallowed all the rhetoric about how the introduction of clinically led commissioning will offer choice to patients? Are we accepting the myth that has grown since the banking crisis of 2008 that the NHS is unsustainable? Are we afraid of speaking out and rocking the boat? Do we just want to get on with our jobs without having to concern ourselves with the details of government policy? Or have we become so immersed in our own world of numbers and spreadsheets that we have ceased to care any more?. A recent survey indicated that . . Perhaps we ought to start earning some respect by properly supporting them in providing high quality patient care. Somewhere the public service ethos that I love has gradually faded to be replaced by a hard-nosed business-oriented approach to managing finances that is focused on making cuts.. The corporatisation of the NHS can be witnessed in the increasingly cold and cynical language employed by NHS managers. Phrases like "frequent flyers" and "bed blockers" are bandied around to describe some of the most seriously ill patients. Changes that can often lead to people losing their jobs are referred to as "transformation". A local reorganisation of hospital services that results in the closure of accident and emergency departments, beds being closed and buildings possibly being sold off for luxury apartments is referred to as "shaping a healthier future".. We are perhaps best placed of any NHS staff group to appreciate the epic scale of the current reorganisation of the NHS. Unlike doctors and nurses delivering healthcare, finance staff could make a stand without it directly affecting patient care. We could speak out about the scandalous waste of money that is the private finance initiative (PFI) and call for the renegotiation of PFI contracts. We could refuse to implement charging for health services for immigrants. We could stop wasting money on management consultants when there are talented, dedicated staff within the health service who could fulfil the same roles. We could be critical of the shambles of . . We could point out the dangers of removing the cap on the amount of income hospitals can earn from treating private patients.. There is the real prospect of austerity stretching way beyond 2020. It is time our profession found its voice on the state of NHS finances and what it means for patients and services. We cannot go on pretending that taking £20bn and more out of the NHS will have no impact on the quality of the service that it provides. In a recent interview, Margaret Hodge, the chair of the public accounts committee said of the NHS: "It's the public service most under threat, yet everyone's in denial.". I do not want to be part of a fragmented health service that places financial considerations above the needs of patients. Let us show that we are capable of more than pushing pens and counting beans. Let us show that we really care about our health service and the patients who use it. Let us demonstrate some social solidarity and join the doctors, nurses, therapists, other healthcare workers and members of the public fighting to save our NHS.