fter the scandals of . , .  and . , the health and care system promised to get better at listening to and addressing reports of poor care, negligence and abuse.. As chief executive of Healthwatch England, the consumer champion for health and social care, I have been watching their progress intently, in particular around the complaints system and the drive to inject a real sense of compassion into how people are dealt with when failed by the system.. To see how they are getting on, we submitted a freedom of information request to every hospital trust in England and asked them to share details of their complaints process. We found there is still huge variation.. The most startling finding, however, was the attitude of hospitals towards complaints raised by those who witness poor care, rather than experiencing it themselves.. Of the 164 trusts we contacted, we received responses from 123, with one in three saying they don’t record complaints made by third parties. Only 30 were able to provide us with enough information to suggest they were dealing with these sorts of complaints in the right way.. Many of the trusts stated incorrectly that they could not investigate complaints unless the patient’s permission was secured. While we would not expect a hospital to share confidential information with a stranger, there is nothing in the rules that says an incident reported by a third party shouldn’t be properly investigated just like any other.. It’s perhaps time that government revisited and clarified the rules around complaints, underpinning the principle that everyone has the right to complain about poor care backed up by proper penalties and fines for those that fail to up their game.. All complaints, no matter how minor, or indeed who makes them, should be recorded and submitted to a central repository so we can track performance. This goes for social care complaints as well.. Just measuring the number of complaints isn’t enough. Every hospital, GP surgery and care home in the country should be required to report on how it has used complaints to drive improvement.. When hospitals do listen, and take action, complaints can lead to positive change. In Rotherham, for example, when two members of the public got into a lift at the local hospital and were asked by a member of staff to escort a lost-looking patient back to his bed, they were outraged. The man had been let outside to smoke a cigarette but the doctors and nurses hadn’t given him any shoes or proper clothes to put on. After getting nowhere with the hospital, the two women took their complaint to their local Healthwatch, which was able to apply some pressure. The hospital agreed to review the CCTV footage and has now implemented new policies around which patients are allowed out, and the checks that need to happen first.. It is worth noting that where hospitals do record third-party concerns, they account for about a fifth of the overall number of complaints. To ignore them risks a huge number of incidents going under the radar, but also wastes a huge learning opportunity to improve services and ensure that everyone receives a compassionate response when they experience or witness poor care.. It is important to remember that complaints aren’t case files; they are real-life stories of what happens when things go wrong in health and social care. Without injecting this sense of compassion into how all such incidents are dealt with, no matter how efficient the system becomes, it will continue to fail to deliver what people need.. It’s time for the system to stop hiding behind red tape and legal loopholes and get serious about complaints.