 I am medical director of Safe Patient Systems and a consultant surgeon. I solve clinical problems by developing innovative mobile solutions to improve patient care in their own home.  I enjoy patient contact, teamwork and contributing towards solving complex problems. I moved into mobile healthcare following three events. In 1994, I noticed neck abscesses smelt differently so we adapted an electronic nose to detect bacteria such as MRSA (the .  at that time was not interested in using such technology). In 2002, following a surgery incident in my hospital, I developed the Safe Surgery System using barcode scanning to prevent mistakes. In 2005, a patient of mine suggested taking a photo of a wound to prevent waiting for an outpatient visit – it worked, so I extended the concept to long-term condition monitoring now known as telehealth..  With the NHS beginning to embrace mobile solutions, I want to see more care moving from hospitals into the home, enabled by mobile technology. The benefits will be obvious to both patients and healthcare professionals. Patients will feel more empowered to look after their own care, while alleviating pressure on the NHS, allowing it to improve outcomes while lowering costs..  being part of the team that has developed the first mobile phone-based telehealth solution that is now the market leader in telehealth..  the NHS’s inability to adapt to change for the benefit of patients. Functionally, the NHS is not one organisation but a loose collective of organisations that sometimes compete and sometimes co-operate with each other. There is no doubt that the NHS executive and frontline clinical staff are aligned regarding the need and direction of change. Unfortunately the execution of this becomes bogged down by indifference, ignorance or arrogance at the operational level as no one appears to be empowered to make a decision in case it is the wrong call..  managing long-term conditions as clinical resources are reduced..  the best innovators and team players who strive to develop solutions to help patients. They are experts in their field who are committed to what we are trying to achieve..  I am passionate and like the challenge..  am always late.. go to Capri with my wife.. patients know best..  do no harm..  to buy a flat in London..  late for the meeting..  Setting a challenge and seeing the team deliver the solution..  NHS indecision – “why have one committee meeting when you can have 20 and still not make a decision?”.  Proving people wrong.. Nothing.