Software billionaire Paul Allen says he's committing $100 million to create a.  focusing on the mechanics of human cell biology.. The .  first project, the Allen Cell Observatory, will focus on creating computational models for the kinds of . , or IPS cells, that have the ability to turn into heart muscle cells or the epithelial cells that form the inner linings of organs as well as skin.. Such cells hold promise for facilitating research into how cells become diseased, and potentially for growing replacement tissues.. "Cells are the fundamental units of life, with every disease we know of affecting particular types of cells," Allen said in a . . "Scientists have learned a great deal about many of the 50 trillion cells in our bodies over the last decades, but creating a comprehensive, predictive model of the cell will require a different approach.". The Allen Cell Observatory's goal is to produce a dynamic, visual database and animated models of cell parts in action. Such models could shed light on the processes by which genetic information is translated into cellular functions, and reveal what goes wrong in a diseased cell. That, in turn, could help researchers predict which therapies will work best to counter diseases, or perhaps head off the disease in the first place.. Allen's latest philanthropic venture was unveiled Monday at the .  in Philadelphia. It follows up on plans that the co-founder of Microsoft has had in mind for years.. "It's the right time to start a big initiative in cell biology: understanding how cells work, understanding the detailed things that happen inside cells, which is behind cancer and Alzheimer's and all those things," . .. Paul Allen's net worth is estimated at . . Over the past 15 years, he has contributed hundreds of millions of dollars to scientific projects including the . , the .  and the . . Last month, he said he would contribute $100 million to the . . (Allen also owns somewhat less-scientific ventures, such as the Seattle Seahawks and the Portland Trail Blazers.). The cell science institute will be housed in the seven-story .  that is currently under construction in Seattle's South Lake Union neighborhood. The building is scheduled for completion in the fall of 2015, and will also house the Allen Brain Institute.. "The co-location will be an obvious point of interaction," said Allen Jones, the brain institute's CEO.. The institute's executive director is . , who served as the director of the federally funded .  for 10 years and has spent the past 15 years doing cell research as a professor at the University of Virginia School of Medicine.. The institute's data, models and tools will be made publicly available online, Horwitz said.. "We plan to engage the global cell science community in developing and executing our projects," he said in Monday's news release. "And by openly sharing our data, reagents, databases and models, we will leverage and empower research by our colleagues around the world.". The institute will bring on about 75 employees over the next three years, Horwitz said during a news conference at the ASCB meeting. Jones said Paul Allen's $100 million commitment would be spread out over five years.. The Allen Institute for Cell Science isn't the only institution of its kind: Several other cell research centers already have been created, including the .  at the Harvard/MIT Broad Institute and .  in the Netherlands.. Horwitz said "there are almost no observatories in terms of what we intend to do.". "I don't know of any observatories of any scale that have looked at the cell in an integrated way to deal with the images the way we're dealing with them," he said.. However, Horwitz said the Allen Institute would collaborate actively with others in the field. "The cell is so complex, there is no one that I know ... who actually could do this by themselves," he said. 