 spending on management consultants who charge up to £4,000 a day has soared to £640m a year under the coalition, despite ministerial pledges to reduce the pay out, official figures reveal.. The amount hospitals and other NHS organisations spend on external advice has more than doubled, from £313m in 2010, the Department of .  said.. David Oliver, a former government adviser on care for older people, obtained the figures under freedom of information laws. Vital NHS funds, he said, were being wasted over advice on issues the service should not need.. After the 2010 general election Andrew Lansley, who was then health secretary, said he was “staggered by the scale of the expenditure” on consultants, and promised to cut the outlay from its level at the time of £313m.. However, the bill has reached £640m – enough to run three medium-sized hospitals or hire another 2,000 nurses, said Oliver, writing in the BMJ publication.. “In times of war, arms dealers, rebuilders and racketeers, profit from the chaos. ‘Disruptive innovation’ has led to similar spoils for management consultants, with taxpayers’ money diverted from already struggling health and social care services,” wrote Oliver, who is also a hospital consultant in Berkshire, president of the British Geriatrics Society, and visiting professor at City University, London.. , the shadow health secretary, said management consultants had had “a field day” due to the coalition’s radical restructuring of the NHS in England, which took effect last year. “This waste is indefensible when patients can’t the treatments they need and nurses were denied a 1% pay rise.”. Monitor, the NHS’s economic regulator, whose leading figures trained in management consultancy, has given contracts worth £32m to the “big four” firms in the field. “The door between the Department of Health, NHS England, Monitor, 10 Downing Street and the consultancy firms, is constantly revolving, creating commercial advantage. Consultancy doesn’t come cheap. Senior partners charge £3,000 to £4,000 a day, the amount a senior doctor earns in two weeks. Consultants have told me that their advice is not valued unless they charge at these rates,” Oliver said.. The NHS clinical commissioning group (CCG) for west Dorset was paying the consultancy firm McKinsey £2.7m for a “strategic review”, while the cash-strapped Barts and the Royal London hospital group paid Global Titanium Solutions £935,000 in one year.. NHS chiefs, said Oliver, should be able to fix problems without spending money meant for patient care on external advice. And contracts awarded to consultancies should be overhauled so that poor or ineffective advice is penalised.. Clive Peedell, an NHS oncologist and co-leader of the National Health Action party, said: ​“​This proves exactly what we’ve been saying for years. This government’s disastrous and wasteful NHS reorganisation has enabled management consultants to cash in on our NHS and syphon off millions that should be spent on patients, while hiding behind a cloak of unaccountability.”. The health secretary, . , has identified spending on consultants as an area where the NHS could save £10bn a year, a department spokesman said.. Meanwhile, an investigation by the BMJ found that a third of contracts being awarded by 182 of England’s 211 CCGs were going to private firms.. Of the 3,494 contracts agreed by CCGs between the start of the Health and Social Care Act, in April 2013 and August 2014, 1,149 went to profit-driven companies. Another 335 (10%) went to voluntary organisations and social enterprises, and most – 1,910 (55%) – went to NHS providers such as hospitals, community and mental health trusts and GP surgeries.. However, analysis of the 1,349 contracts in which the value of the tender gained was shown, revealed that private firms agreed deals for just 5% (£490m) of the total £10bn worth of work tendered. NHS providers gained 85% (£8.5bn) of the work, and voluntary and social enterprise bodies 7% (£690m).