he .  was a major topic of discussion in the run-up to Scotland’s referendum on independence. Those pushing for a no vote said its £2,115 spending on health per person in 2012-13, compared with England’s £1,912, showed how the UK helps its devolved nations through the Barnett formula – arguably at the expense of England.. Few make such arguments for . . Like Scotland, it has run its own NHS since 1999, and has similarly removed the market-style divide between commissioners and providers of care that is still in place in England.. But in 2012-13, Wales spent only a little more than England on healthcare (£1,954), despite a 2009 opinion from the National Audit Office that the relative needs of the Welsh exceed those of Scots as well as the English. Unlike England and Scotland, the Welsh government reduced NHS spending in real terms in the early years of this decade, blaming underfunding by Westminster.. As a result, Welsh NHS staff have plenty of experience of austerity, including its chief executive Andrew Goodall. Before moving to the national job in June, as chief executive of Aneurin Bevan University health board in south-east Wales he took part in the South Wales Programme. Earlier this year, those involved agreed to concentrate acute services including emergency, consultant-led maternity and children’s care at five centres, with some hospitals losing services as a result.. Goodall says that the Welsh NHS built its case through a consultation process that gathered comments from 62,000 people. “You do need iterations. You have to show the public they are involved all along the way,” he says, with consultations needing to be honest with the potential to change plans. He adds: “You want to make sure that, where it’s a clinical issue, you have a clinical consensus.”. The last few months have brought an easing of the financial pressures, with the Welsh government 2015-16 budget adding £295m of spending on health and wellbeing in 2015-16, including .  as a result of increased allocations in the chancellor’s autumn statement. This adds up to a 4.5% increase, to £6.82bn. A further £200m is set to follow the year after, while other areas including local government are facing cuts.. However, Goodall says that the extra money will help health services keep pace with demand rather than allow new activity. After several years of pay restraint, the increase will “allow some recognition of pay pressures”, and negotiations with unions are taking place. “If we’re able to recognise the living wage, that would be a good way to use some of that money,” he says, but adds: “Whatever we do will still be under a pay restraint envelope.”. The extra money is based on research the government commissioned from the Nuffield Trust, which said that the Welsh NHS could remain affordable – but only if it continued to re-shape its services, such as by saving money on inpatient admissions through good management of patients with chronic conditions. The government has set up a £10m fund to move some treatment for conditions including eye care and heart disease from hospitals to primary care, nearer patients’ homes.. Goodall says Wales can reorganise more easily than England, as its seven health boards manage all the services in their areas. Shifting work from hospitals to primary care requires a board to make internal changes, rather than one organisation losing out to another. “We can pull together different parts of the system,” he says. “Some of the frustrations that can happen negotiating across organisations – we have the opportunity to do that differently.”. He adds that the small size of the Welsh NHS, which includes three trusts providing specialist services, provides staff with strong opportunities. They can develop full care pathways within their organisations, and it is easier to form networks with peers, which can connect to national decision-making.. “We’re able to bring people in a room, and understand their own views on how they want to develop good services,” Goodall says. “People can talk about what they want to change in Wales, and we’re able to do something about that.”. He says NHS Wales is also working to improve the quality of services, including the consistent handling of reviews of deaths in hospital across Wales and measures to check services at district general hospitals. The latter followed poor care at the Princess of Wales hospital in Bridgend, which led recently to two nurses admitting to multiple charges of wilful neglect.. Goodall is wary of entering a politically-charged area, but does say: “I’ve worked for the NHS for 23 years, I work in it because of the values that I have, and I know that is true of all of our staff who work in the NHS, who come to work to do a good job,” adding: “We need to continue to shout about the good work and progress we are making in Wales.”