Ditch deli counter ham and turkey and try this meatless midday meal instead. The vegetarian-friendly lunch still provides protein thanks to its tofu base and also bumps up the nutritional content with fresh veggies and heart-healthy avocado. A dash of spicy sriracha takes the heat up a notch too.. Tofu, oil, sriracha, whole grain roll, avocado, carrots, cilantro. Tomatoes and cheese are basically a match made in heaven. After all, pizza. But the winning combo is also crazy tasty in sandwich form. This grilled cheese made with rye bread, cheddar cheese, and beefsteak tomato is super-satisfying thanks to its careful balance of fat, protein, and carbs. Even better, tomato provides cancer-fighting antioxidants..  Cooking spray, rye bread, grainy mustard, reduced-fat Cheddar cheese, beefsteak tomato.  355. This egg salad is nothing like your grandma’s. Packed with healthy flavor thanks to its wholesome . , the protein-rich spread is just what you need to refuel midday..  Hard boiled eggs, buttermilk, olive oil mayonnaise, chives, lemon juice, parsley, honey, salt, pepper, celery, arugula, fennel, chives, sprouted grain bread. 447. Fiber-packed and naturally sweet, apples are the perfect addition to your classic grilled cheese sandwich. Combine them with cheddar cheese and a supergreen like baby spinach for a perfectly balanced (and filling!) bite.. Mayonnaise, whole-wheat bread, sharp cheddar cheese, apple, baby spinach, Dijon mustard. 325. Way healthier than a classic cold cut sandwich, this spicy salmon wrap is packed with nutrients. Iron-rich baby spinach supports blood health, and omega-3 fatty acids in satiating salmon will do your heart good too.. Olive oil mayonnaise, sriracha, coconut flour wrap, baby spinach, mushrooms, canned wild salmon, rice vinegar, honey, salt, cucumber. 345. Wrap satisfying steak in a lettuce cup for a low-carb dish that’s packed with protein and vitamins. Red bell peppers are high in immune-boosting vitamin C, and a smartly portioned side of healthier home fries make this simple meal nutritious and energizing.. Potato, olive oil, chili powder, steak, romaine, red bell pepper, balsamic vinaigrette, cilantro. Yep, a better-for-you bacon grilled cheese sandwich really does exist. All it takes is lean turkey bacon, whole-wheat bread, and a smart serving of cheddar and parmesan to make melty goodness with a fraction of the fat of the original.. Oil, cheddar, grated parmesan, turkey bacon, whole-wheat bread. Upgrade your standard BLT by swapping classic ingredients with better-for-you alternatives, like lean turkey bacon and whole-wheat hamburger buns. Superfoods like avocado also deliver heart-healthy fats to this delicious sammy that only tastes indulgent.. Whole-wheat hamburger buns, turkey bacon, tomato, avocado, lettuce, salt, pepper, mayonnaise