The .  has a significant environmental impact. It is an employer to 1.7m staff and every day it delivers around 835,000 GP and practice nurse visits, 50,000 A&E visits, 49,000 outpatient consultations and 130,000 hospital admissions. That’s a lot of activity. And a lot of impact in terms of energy, travel, medicines, materials, staff and patient time – plus the impacts of wellbeing, supported communities, flourishing economies, partnerships and innovation.. The health service has been . , and wider legislation commits the UK to a 34% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020. Meeting these targets is essential as the future provision of high quality healthcare will not be possible without embedding sustainable development into operational and governance processes.. The wider impacts of health service activity are what we should be linking to sustainability in annual reports and sustainable development management plans (SDMPs).. All NHS organisations should have an SDMP setting out sustainability drivers and targets and ambitions. An SDMP is based on the right mix of social, economic and environmental factors that are fundamental to creating a sustainable health service..  Read the .  that covers the health and care systems in England.  Appoint organisational leads at delivery and board level.  Measure resource use, staff and stakeholder opinion. Benchmark progress to identify hotspots and low performing areas.  Involve your staff: what do they want to see in their SDMP?.  Evaluate commissioning and procurement processes – what your supply chain does will affect your performance further down the line.  Consider the role GPs, care or other independent providers can take. How can you support them to be more sustainable?.  Work in partnership with counterparts and transformation teams. While the Green Investment Bank .  (not to mention travel, water, waste, and procurement), SDMPs help organisations to realise much more than financial benefits.. For example, in a recent sustainable travel group meeting held online, seven participants from four organisations located between one and six miles away from each other saved between them five-and-a-half hours by not travelling to a 90-minute meeting.. Removing this travel time reduced the CO2 footprint of the meeting, along with associated travel costs. As a result of less travel, the staff reported improved productivity and reduced stress. High levels of staff wellbeing links strongly to reduced absenteeism and staff turnover – improving your economic stability.. While it seems that there is a lot of work to be done, many organisations have already taken great steps to a more sustainable operating structure, we should share, learn and build on these approaches, and put the systems in place to assess and evaluate.