We're a little arrogant about our fitness here in Southern California. While millions of other Americans bundle up against the Arctic chill blasting a swath of the country, we happily keep on cycling and running and skating in shorts and tank tops. But now it's December; nighttime temperatures are skirting 50. Bottom line: Winter's coming, and you have to be ready. Here are a few innovative winter products for runners, snowboarders and skiers..  Full-finger, cold-weather, stretch-fleece gloves for runners and cyclists that include a white, flashing LED light on the index-finger knuckle..  Very effective. Press the button on the back of the wrist once to activate the light and once again to make it blink. It includes a retractable wind/water-resistant hood to keep fingers warm in rain and cold..  Wouldn't a red light be more visible?.  $35. .  Unisex snowboarding compression shorts, worn under pants, with a built-in padded tailbone protector..  A good idea — and about time. Newbie snowboarders (and veterans too) fall so regularly that tailbone injuries are legion. Embedded in the shorts is a ½-inch-thick foam pad, curved and plastic-reinforced, that extends 9 inches down from the waist. Form-fitting, it looks natural and feels comfortable to wear..  None.  $89.99. .  A "softshell" ski and snowboard helmet made of a flexible, dual density, impact-absorbing vinyl nitrile foam and a flexible outer shell material..  Super comfortable. The soft shell molds to your head better than hard-shell helmets. The soft, padded strap includes ear warmers. Eight small vents allow air flow. Includes removable goggles strap and compatibility with all Giro goggles and after-market sound systems. Handsome matte finish comes in many colors..  None.  $119.95. .  Pull-on rubber traction device, studded with tungsten carbide spikes, worn over running shoes to prevent slipping during runs and walks on icy roads and sidewalks..  It works, packs small and slips on in seconds. With 10 spikes of 1/16 inch to bite into ice and icy-slick frozen roads, you run and walk confidently in dicey conditions. Very lightweight (8 ounces per pair in a medium size) and convenient to carry when not in use, they pack into a 6-by-4-inch zippered tote (included). For more bite in snowier and icier conditions, a good choice is Kahtoola's Microspikes ($60), which bundle a similar stretch-over-shoe rubber ribbing with car-like ice chains and aggressive ½-inch-long spikes..  None.  $49.95. 