More and more is being demanded of a system that was never designed to operate to such a high level, and it simply cannot cope.. You will be forgiven for thinking that I am referring to the .  as a whole (as that would be correct too) but, I refer to the decrepit computer systems populating our hospital wards.. With a view to moving entirely to electronic health records, a progressive transfer of all supporting paperwork to an e-equivalent is under way. New icons invade our desktops causing our username and password combinations to multiply, again and again.. It’s not just the doctors who struggle; the ageing bones of the crumbling hardware system creak ever louder as it cranks up to process another new data load. Shiny software systems have been introduced for lab results, for requesting, reporting and reviewing x-rays, to dictate and verify letters and our latest coup, e-prescribing. These developments, designed to help us to manage patient care more safely and efficiently now have the opposite effect due to a lack of parallel investment in the supporting hardware and operating systems. It is common to find only two of these slow, outdated species in clinical areas where half a dozen health professionals need to access them.. Want to see your pre-op patients quickly? Well you can, but then you will need to wait for a computer. Then log in. Once your profile and settings are configured you can use your password to access the patient’s medication (if the nurse doing the drug round is not using the profile to chart administration). You can navigate a different arm to prescribe pre-operative medication and another to check which painkillers have already been given (wouldn’t want to duplicate any). Each page will dial up in turn.. You know how infuriating it is when a customer service centre explains, “The system is slow today”? I now know they really are not joking.. In the labour ward things are no better. Documenting the epidural you cited takes longer than the procedure itself and will be postponed indefinitely while the midwife has the patient’s profile open to document – well – everything, really. Whoever named the system e-clipse obviously foresaw our problems.. Restrictions to other types of computer use have been imposed. As always, the theory is great but does not translate into everyday practice quite so well. Any site derived from Facebook, YouTube, or eBay is “deemed inappropriate by your line manager” and cannot be accessed, not even to revise a practical procedure with a YouTube demonstration. Not even to find a forum for advice or to search for those rare syndromes that only present in the middle of the night. My Google search for pain relief for a complex patient was thwarted at the a-n-a-l of analgesia (and a secret alarm was set off too I’m sure).. However, quality of life at work is severely diminished in the long out-of-hours periods. I cannot access the National Lottery site to choose numbers or to check if I’ve won. I cannot plan a holiday during the quiet spells, nor can I send an e-card to the friend whose birthday I forgot.. A huge investment in information technology is required if our move to e-health is to continue. At what cost? The numbers are not important, rather the fact that this amount is visible, measurable and accountable, unlike the time and resource we all waste waiting for the egg timer to stop spinning.