hy do doctors get such a raw deal in rock’n’roll? It’s a question very few of us have ever bothered to give the grave attention it deserves. However, at long last, a pair of medics have made an in-depth study of the matter, published in this week’s British Medical Journal.. “Empathy for doctors is rare,” complain writer Rob Stepney and medical student Nick Surawy Stepney, in their essay “. ”. Surveying the history of rock’n’roll, which is strewn with references to the profession, they find that doctors are called out on countless occasions for lyrical emergencies – only to find themselves depicted as creeps and villains.. Of 64 songs reviewed, the authors found 19 in which doctors engaged in acts of professional misconduct, and three – the Beatles’ Dr Robert, Dirty Pretty Things’ Doctors and Dealers (“crackpot quacks with cracked up egos”) and Dr Feelgood’s Down At The .  - that cast them as shady drug dealers. Just as often, the doctor was invoked in terms of inappropriate professional relationships, as in Leonard Cohen’s suggestive I’m Your Man, which proposes extensive physical examinations which are medically unnecessary, or the evil, predatory Dr Monk, as decried in Fairport Convention’s The Doctor of Physick. Even Peter Sellers’ Indian doctor is rebuked for not keeping his stethoscope from “bobbing to the throbbing” when closely examining Sophia Loren and her multiple ailments in Goodness Gracious Me.. A wry smile doubtless plays about the lips of Stepney and Stepney as they present their findings – but why the rock’n’roll fixation on dodgy doctors? Is it because they are seen as joylessly antithetical to the rock spirit, white-coated scribblers of drearily legal prescriptions, when the real cure for what ails you is hard riffing, free love and banned substances? Well, maybe, but it may just be that a lyric like “Went to my doctor/Doctor said to me/Take two of these four times a day for 72 hours, drink plenty of water and avoid acidic foods” lacks a certain, pulse-racing frisson.