mong the more unlikely films of 2014 was a western with a plot revolving around feminism and mental health. In . , Tommy Lee Jones’s grizzled drifter reflects that folk are happy to yak about death and taxes, “but when it comes to crazy, they just hush up”.. This was the year when we stopped hushing up about mental health and started talking more easily about it as a nation, according it something of its rightful status. We may not yet be close to the . with physical health that ministers have promised, and NHS England’s perverse decision to cut mental health trust income more than that of hospital trusts will take some forgiving, but there’s a clear sense of a corner having been turned.. A good deal of the credit for this must lie with the effective . , which yielded the . . But much credit, too, goes to the Liberal Democrats who have .  in government and stuck with the cause. That it may not save them many votes at next May’s general election makes it even more to be applauded.. What else can we be pleased about, looking back on 2014? Having castigated NHS England, we should doff our caps to its new boss, Simon Stevens, for a masterful report that, with a fair wind and a big slice of good fortune, could secure a long-term future for the health service. His . achieved the seemingly impossible of uniting the NHS’s feuding tribes around a single vision and secured political buy-in by offering to trade serious change for serious money. The chancellor’s autumn statement brought a quick and significant . .. It remains early days and a winter .  crisis – real, or whipped up amid pre-election hysteria – could throw a spanner in the works of system reform. But Stevens has made a fine start.. Then there’s devolution. After the frustratingly unfulfilled promise of the.  at the end of the last Labour government, and the unclear direction of the whole-place community budget pilots instigated by the coalition, a rocket has been launched under the idea of empowered city regions. The . , giving extensive new responsibilities from 2017 to a combined authority run by an executive mayor, has triggered a stampede of other wannabe city (and county) regions clamouring for the same.. While it may have taken the shock of the Scottish referendum campaign to turbo-charge the devolution agenda, there’s surely no going back. Having for years argued its case to be given meaningful responsibility for “place-shaping”, local government will now need to deliver. Which, in all the circumstances, is undoubtedly asking a lot. If we didn’t already know as much, the autumn statement a fortnight ago confirmed the awful truth of the public spending outlook for next year and through to the chancellor’s planned surplus in 2019-20. Cuts . , interpreted the Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS). Unprotected Whitehall budgets, which means all except healthcare, schools and overseas aid, face reductions of 40% under Tory plans, while we finally heard last week that .  to achieve its version of budget balance by 2020.. It won’t be much of a happy new year for . , including more than half the staff of the city’s showpiece new library as its opening hours are slashed. But at least it will still be open: according to new figures from public finance body Cipfa, another . , with hundreds more kept open only by volunteers.. Just a flavour of what the IFS means when it says we are heading for “a fundamental re-imagining of the state”.