he report by the .  that was announced yesterday paints a sickening picture of what was found within inpatient units for people with a learning disability run by Calderstones NHS trust.. The CQC found serious deficiencies in the quality of care, including dirty and unsafe wards and seclusion rooms, inadequate staffing, frequent use of physical restraint and seclusion – including face-down restraint – and failures in relation to the Mental Health Act. The .  also reveals that 40% of patients at Calderstones have been there for five years or more, mostly detained under the Mental Health Act, many subject to Ministry of Justice restrictions.. Unfortunately, this is a picture that is all too familiar within inpatient settings for people with a learning disability. Following the BBC Panorama programme’s exposure in 2011 of the . , public outrage led to a concordat and commitments from national and local government and the NHS to take action and bring people back to their communities. But these promises to people with a learning disability and their families were not delivered by this June. Not only has there been little progress but things have got worse. .  keeps showing that more people are going into these institutions than coming out.. We know from the Learning Disability Census that people in inpatient services are at significant risk of abuse, self harm, being . . We talk to families every day who have a loved one in this position. This simply is not acceptable in what we like to consider our civilised society.. Mencap, of which I am chief executive, and the Challenging Behaviour Foundation, know of people who have died in these places. Stephanie Bincliffe, who had a learning disability, autism and behaviour that challenged, and who was 25 years old, died in an assessment and treatment unit. Bincliffe was 18 when she was admitted to the unit, where she was isolated in a padded room for almost seven years with no access to fresh air or exercise. She gained over 10 stone in weight while in the unit, putting her life in danger. She had no access to food other than what staff gave her and weighed almost 26 stone when she died. Bincliffe’s death was caused by heart failure and sleep apnoea, due to obesity. . The failings of Calderstone’s .  trust are a sharp reminder why urgent action is needed to move people with a learning disability and behaviour that challenges out of inpatient settings and stop the unacceptable culture of sending people into these places.. The CQC’s report comes in the wake of silence from NHS England, the government and local authorities regarding how they plan to drive change in light of the recommendations of the .  that was published last month. The new year will be a critical time in addressing this, with NHS England due to set out their plans for change, and a green paper due by February, setting out new rights for people with a learning disability to stop inappropriate inpatient admissions.. Everyone agrees that people with a learning disability should be receiving good care and support in their local community. No one should have to call a hospital a home in 21st-century Britain.