Shopping for holiday gifts can be awfully . . After all, your best friend is into tech, while your sister only uses sustainable products, and your mom goes giddy for the newest kitchen gear. Take a deep breath and consider this chaotic problem officially solved with our new gift guide for every type of woman in your life..  $119; . If aromatherapy is your (or their) game, this is . . About 10-20 drops will infuse a 500 square foot room with the scent of your choice.  Did we mention this is easy to clean and has an auto off safety switch?.  $199; . Got someone on your shopping list who’s curious to learn about her health and background? 23andMe’s personalized DNA reports can help her explore her ancestry, taste preferences, sleep habits, and more. After she submits her saliva test in the included packaging, she’ll get more than 90 different genetic reports–and she can even connect with her DNA relatives.. $33; . When you’re on the go, keeping your liquids at your preferred temperature can be an issue. The vacuum insulation on this .  keeps cool items cold for 24 hours and hot items hot for 12 hours. The sip spout makes it easy to drink without spills or unscrewing the whole top. And with sizes ranging from 18 oz. to 40 oz., you're bound to find the perfect fit for your lifestyle.. $129; . Sitting on a balance ball at work can be hard to pull off. This .  eliminates the rolling away problem while helping you improve posture, circulation, and get a little core work while you're emailing. The stool can adjust from an 18”-23” desk, making it great for most office workers..  $89; . They might look like your basic black leggings, but these .  will keep legs warm on evening runs, and they're also a great base layer under pants or a dress. If you don’t own a pair yet, you’re missing out..  . $250; . Retain moisture, fight frizz, and reveal shine, all while getting a blowout in less time. As a bonus, .  and quiet..  $119; . Concerned about the air you’re breathing at home? This .  monitors toxins, chemicals, CO2, humidity, and temperature and can turn on appliances like your air purifier or air conditioner when your levels need to be adjusted to clean the air.. $45; . Gift this to any runner friends who could use a massage. .  can help boost energy, ease aches, and . —making it easier to work out harder next time. This one from TriggerPoint comes with free instructional videos and is made from quality materials that won't lose their shape over time.. $70; . Artist Andrew Bannecker designed this gorgeous, . —and it's as fun to open as it is beautiful. She'll love discovering the 24 (!) products behind each door, a mix of masks, serums, moisturizers, and more must-haves from Kiehl's..  $50; . This is the next best thing to one of photographer Gray Malin's coveted beach prints. The .  will have her dreaming of tropical sunshine, even in the dead of winter..  $19; . The perfect stocking stuffer for red eye travelers or that person who never manages to get enough zzz's. We .  This Works sleep spray, and .  comes with an adorable eye mask, too.. : $98; . This clutch has just the right amount of glitz for a holiday party or New Year's Eve bash, while still being roomy and durable enough for everyday use. Most importantly, it .  (phone, credit cards, and keys) with a handy wristlet strap that makes it easy to grab and go.. : $170; . Fans of .  say they feel like a big, warm hug. (Some small studies even suggest these types of blankets might help ease symptoms of anxiety and promote relaxation.) This bestselling .  is a great choice; it's available in a range of fun colors and has a removable cover so it can still be used in the summertime..  $60; . A .  is one of our all-time favorite gifts for healthy eaters. With its 600-watt motor, the high-speed blender  quickly pulverizes fruits and veggies for perfect smoothies and sauces, while built-in cups make it easy to store extras in the fridge for later. Plus, the sleek, compact design means it's a good option for apartment dwellers with tiny kitchens..  $25; . Although the Vitruvi (see number two on this list) is a great choice, .  is also a worthy gift, especially for those who are just starting to explore essential oils. Plus, it's cute and compact enough for her to display on her desk at work.. $25; . Celebs like Jenna Dewan, Miranda Kerr, and Spencer Pratt . . And although there's no scientific evidence that they do anything other than look pretty, experts say there is some research to suggest that crystals may have a placebo effect that could promote relaxation. ("If you’re into this sort of alternative medicine, there’s little harm in giving it a go—as long as it’s not a substitute for real medical treatment when you need it," says . 's contributing medical editor Dr. Raj.) This .  will look gorgeous on her dresser.. $30; . There are a lot of yoga mats out there, but Gaiam’s are . . (If you don’t believe us, just check out the more than 900 4-star reviews this one has on Amazon.) It’s light enough to carry to and from yoga class with ease and has extra-thick cushioning—perfect for all those sun salutations she’ll be doing.. : $230; . If she already has an Echo (or even if she doesn't), the latest smart home release from Amazon is sure to be a hit. With the .  (available November 6), she can stream music, get the weather, set timers and alarms, and find recipes—all hands-free with Alexa technology.. $50; . Sleek sneaks are never out of style, especially this . . She'll love slipping them on with a variety of looks: with her yoga clothes after class, with jeans on the weekend, and maybe even with a business-casual look for work. Not sure she'll go for white? These shoes also come in black, gray, and two shades of blue.. $28; . These are some seriously good suds, and .  in your life. The set includes four all-natural vegan and gluten-free soaps in beautiful packaging—no gift wrap necessary! They're made with notes from popular wed and white blends, such as chardonnay and pinot noir..  $45; . Her go-to sweatshirt just got even cozier, thanks to .  from Everlane. With its supersoft fleece and roomy silhouette, you can bet she'll be reaching for this topper every weekend. (And lucky for you, the price point can't be beat.).  $169; .  and . Meet our .  . : It's made of 100% waterproof silicone, ideal for sensitive teeth; has 16 variable speeds; vibrates at a whopping 11,000 pulses a minute (see ya, plaque); and looks totally gorgeous on your bathroom sink. Oh, and one charge lasts for a full six months, so you don't have to worry about charging it each night.. $14; . Okay, so they're not exactly . ,. thanks to the sugar count. But these adorable .  are .  for you. Inspired by Pressed Juicery's green juice, they contain real ingredients (think apples, lemons, ginger, and greens) without any artificial colors or flavors. A serving even delivers 20% of your daily recommendations for vitamin C and A.. $12; . Help her catch some much-needed zzz's with a silky eye pillow. This one contains organic flax seed and French lavender flowers, creating a calming scent. It’s also a great gift for yogis, since an eye pillow . .. $70; . Available in four versatile monochromatic hues and designed with a cushy memory-fit foam insole, these .  will feel totally blissful on her feet.. $38; . The trendy .  that every fitness influencer and cool girl in your barre class has been spotted sipping from always makes a great stocking stuffer.. : from $35; . It's the perfect item to have on hand for secret santa exchanges, . , or that coworker you don't know well enough to shop for. Diptyque candles smell completely amazing, and .  is one of our all-time favorites.. from $7; . Help her kick off her healthy-eating resolution right with a gift certificate to this . . One-time or subscription gifts are available, and you can also choose between classic meals (which contain meat and fish), vegetarian, or larger portions for families.. : $99; . If she's a healthy foodie, chances are she has a .  on her holiday wishlist. Although you certainly can't go wrong gifting the . , this new cooker from Pioneer Woman blogger Ree Drummond is particularly giftable. Like the original, it boasts 12 built-in programs, speedy cooking time, and a stainless steel bottom, but the fun vintage-inspired print will add some color to her kitchen.. : $38; . Handheld jade rollers are all the rage right now. This one is crafted from pure Xiuyan jade stone, and has an accompanying eye roller to help depuff undereye bags..  $39 for 3; . If she's obsessed with her . , gift her .  that will help her take her beauty sleep to the next level. Not only do they look supercute, but the silky fabric prevents tangles and breakage to fight frizz and keep hair healthy..  $155; . We've recently become obsessed with Dagne Dover's on-trend bags, wallets, and clutches. The brand's .  is especially versatile, though: it's roomy enough to fit a pair of shoes and change of clothes, and has a padded laptop sleeve that makes it a great work-to-gym bag. Also good: a detachable cross-body strap, exterior pocket for her phone, and quick-drying 100% premium neoprene fabric. It's available in a slew of fun colors, but we're loving this unexpected pink camo print..  $60; . Winter jackets can be pricey, but this puffer—with its on-trend mockneck silhouette, plush Micro Fleece filling, and five fun colors—is a total steal at just $60..  $330; . We're betting that .  is going to be one of the hottest gifts of 2018. Consider the evidence: built-in health tracking lets her monitor everything from her sleep to her steps to her meditation practice; it's water-resistant and boasts an impressive Corning Gorilla Glass DX+ display that prevents scratches; and it can go .  on a single charge. It's available in two neutral tones, but you'll find us in this pretty rose gold hue.. from $21; . Your favorite fruit lover will appreciate .  for her kitchen (pineapples are a symbol of hospitality). Minted lets you personalize your gift with your choice of frame (17 different options are available), print size, and material used..  $25; . The three . -packed formulas in .  will give her the clear, glowy skin of her dreams (and they're TSA-approved sizes, too).. : $45; . Few bags are as versatile as . . She can wear it to the gym, to work, or as a personal carry-on when traveling, and have her hands free the whole time. An interior compartment is perfect for stashing smaller essentials..  $64; . Real talk: It's .  that salt lamps offer any real medical benefits, experts say. Still, that doesn't mean you can't gift one for the mood lighting. This .  was made in Pakistan with 100% Himalayan crystal salt, and delivers a gorgeous glow.. : from $129; . When it comes to sheets, we have many, many favorites. (Here are some we love . , and the .  you should have on hand in summertime.) But few sheets compare with Brooklinen's. Multiple .  staffers rave about the ridiculously soft and lightweight cotton percale weave, which just gets better and better with each wash. The chic patterns are a bonus, although you can't go wrong gifting classic white.. $65; . When in doubt, a salt and pepper mill set is always a great choice, and .  is the best of the best..  $248; . We love all of M.Gemi's shoes for their high quality materials and foot-supportive details, but .  is truly next level. With laser-cut leather uppers and gorgeous silver tones, she'll love rocking these handmade beauties throughout the year.. : $90; . Sunday Riley skincare products are truly incredible. This . —she'll get three of the brand's cult-favorite products, including their vitamin C serum, exfoliating serum, and water cream—really delivers on its promises for brighter, younger-looking skin.. $40 for one month; . If she's gone keto (or thinking about starting), she'll love . , which makes following the popular diet a lot easier. Each month, she'll get a curated mix of eight to 11 low-carb snacks from keto-approved brands like Soom Foods and Nui..  $85; . Beauty addicts who were also glued to their TVs during the Royal Wedding will appreciate .  which comes with two of the Meghan Markle-approved brand's bestselling products (the Duchess reportedly .  the exfoliating Rice Polish). Plus, the set rings in $28 less than its retail price, making it a great value to boot.. : $175; . A good gym bag is essential for fitness fanatics, but we love that this one doesn't scream "gym bag." In fact, the quilted fabric, leather details, and sleek silhouette make it chic enough to become her go-to carryall for work, travel, and yes, daily trips to Equinox.. $50 and up; . For healthy foodies, there's no better place to shop than . . The up-and-coming online grocer organizes all items sold on the site into . , such as gluten-free, keto, vegan, paleo, and raw. She'll love shopping from a mix of tried-and-true brands like Larabar, Nuttzo, and Bob's Red Mill along with Thrive's own label, and prices are lower than she'll find in most grocery stores. Also good? The site just launched a new wine category, which features varieties that are organic, biodynamic, and free of added sugar..  $100; . Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is real, and one of the best ways to combat it at home is with a . . The National Institute for Mental Health recommends one that delivers light at 10,000 lux, and this highly reviewed lamp from Verilux fits the bill. Soaking up its artificial glow for 20 to 60 minutes a day may help ease SAD symptoms and boost mood and energy. Gift it to that person in your life who's been missing sunny summer days.. $100; . Vionic's podiatrist-approved shoes are popular for good reason: details like supportive cushioning, plenty of arch support, and roomy toe boxes (read: no squished bunions) ensure that every step feels like walking on clouds. These .  are no exception. We love that they're ultra soft and cozy for winter days spent lounging around the house, but still sleek enough (with a durable rubber sole) so you can wear them outdoors, too..  $55; . She'll get tons of us out of this . . The neutral hues mean it'll go with everything in her closet, and it's roomy enough to keep in her work or gym bag for storing essentials on the go. Plus, it's water-resistant, making it a great choice for beach vacations.. $38; . She'll shine bright like a diamond with .  from Fenty Beauty. The oh-so-sparkly formula looks good on all skin tones, and is formulated without parabens, sulfates, or phthalates..  $85; . Chilly winter runs just got a lot cozier, thanks to this . . She'll love the thumbhole cuffs and front pockets to stash her phone, keys, and credit card.. from $50; . Does she spend more money on boutique fitness classes than she does clothes? Trust us, she'll appreciate some . . A membership will give her access to hundreds of popular studios in cities throughout the U.S., and the easy-to-use app makes booking (and rescheduling) classes a breeze.