 What are you?.  I am the ghost of general practice past..  They passed through the wall, and into the city. They stopped at a GP surgery door.. I was a registrar here! Fezziwig was my trainer!.  They went in. A young man, Scrooge’s former self, sauntered in..  No more work tonight. It’s Christmas Eve, turn the phones off and put the shutters up. Get home!.  Dr Fezziwig made his way home, but knew that he couldn’t have a drop of drink tonight as he was on call for his list of patients, again. He could be called out overnight, again. He even had a Santa hat, in case he needed to cheer up a poor mite with suspected appendicitis. Hopefully, this year he would get to carve the turkey. As he walked home, patients in the street stopped to shake his hand and wish him a Merry Christmas..  A small matter, to make these patients so full of gratitude. He has spent but a few minutes with each of them. Is that so much that he deserves this praise?.  He has the power to render them happy or unhappy; I can’t believe that he could have got so much job satisfaction. It’s surely not possible. Spirit! Remove me from this place. Haunt me no longer!.  I am the ghost of general practice present!.  The room and its contents all vanished and they stood in his city surgery. Scrooge and the ghost passed on, invisible, straight to the receptionist; as Mrs. Cratchit came to the desk ....  I really would appreciate an appointment with Dr Scrooge for my Tiny Tim!.  I’m afraid that is not possible, have you considered the walk-in centre?.  Yes, but I do believe Dr Scrooge is his named GP..  Is he at risk of an unavoidable admission?.  No, we’ve managed to keep him out of hospital this last year, despite ....  Is he on the learning disability register?.  No, his problems are all physical. He’s got this chesty cough you see …. Does he need minor surgery?. Err, no, he doesn’t. I would just like to see ….  Look. I’m afraid Dr Scrooge doesn’t have time to “just see” patients, unless it helps him tick some box. And what’s more … Oi! Give me back that Friends and Family leaflet … Do you have no idea how much pressure we are under?.  Mrs Crachit slowly goes back to Tiny Tim and his crutches, waiting in the car..  The GP surgery sprang up about them, with a plethora of managers and insurance clerks. The third spirit stopped near the kettle..  I don’t know much about it either way. I only know it is dead..  When did it die?.  Last election, I believe..  What will happen to the surgery?.  I haven’t heard; Serco perhaps. Dr Scrooge hadn’t prepared for this. That’s all I know.. Something tells me that we’re running out of time. What has died?.  The Ghost of General Practice Future took him to a graveyard in the grounds of the Houses of Parliament. The spirit pointed. Scrooge crept forwards, trembling as he went; and read upon the stone of the neglected grave “National .  Service”..  No, spirit! Hear me! Why show me this, if we are past all hope? Assure me that I may yet change these politicians. Tell me spirit, how I may wipe away the writing on this stone!