On Christmas Eve 1985, at the maternity hospital in Carlisle, my mum had a complication during the labour of her first child. The umbilical cord had been squashed by the baby’s head and its blood supply was compromised. The baby was saved by an emergency caesarean section.. That baby was me and this Christmas, 29 years after my first, I’ll be back on the maternity unit in Carlisle. Not as a patient this time, but as a junior doctor. Although I’ve been a doctor for five years, I’ve never had to work at Christmas before. I don’t feel apprehensive about it; Christmas is a happy time and this can often be the case in hospitals too.. There are Christmas trees round every corner, a carol concert in the hospital’s main entrance and the canteen is serving Christmas dinner. On Friday afternoon we are hosting a Christmas quiz and there are mince pies on every shift. Furthermore, it is serendipity that nearly three decades after the staff helped my mum during her difficult Christmas delivery, I have returned to do the same for others.. When people find out about my Christmas birthday, most offer their commiserations. However, having a Christmas birthday is the only birthday I’ve ever known and it’s never been a negative experience. When I was little, like the Queen, I had two birthdays; my usual one at Christmas and an extra one in summer so I didn’t have to go too long without a celebration.. When I was a bit older, I used to go with my friends to a local water park on Christmas Eve and we often had the place to ourselves. Once I had gone to university, I’d come home and have a Christmas Eve night out with my friends, I’d often get a shout-out on the dance floor and a lift home from my parents who felt they owed it to me to pick me up, even though it was the early hours of Christmas morning.. I don’t know what I’ll be doing in the early hours of this Christmas morning; perhaps assisting in an emergency Caesarean section or counselling a woman who has suffered a miscarriage. I could be admitting an emergency gynaecology case or simply sitting down for a cup of tea with my colleagues.. In 1987 my mum had a second Christmas baby in Carlisle. This one was born by a planned caesarean section because she was breech (the wrong way round). It should have been less stressful this time but life had other plans. My dad, who was a local GP at the time, was run over while attending a call-out on Boxing Day night. He had been attending to the victims of another car accident at the time. Three days later, my mum had her planned caesarean section while my dad was across town, pinned to a bed on an orthopaedic ward. Once again, we all survived to tell the tale, thankful for all the dedicated .  staff working over Christmas.