The .  is being hampered by an over-complex management structure which is quashing initiative within the service, a delayed government report by the former Marks & Spencer chief Sir Stuart Rose is expected to conclude.. The report was due to be published in November but is now expected early in the new year before the general election and amid growing concerns about the pressures being placed on hospital accident and emergency departments.. Ministers are concerned that Rose’s report will be seized upon by critics of the coalition’s NHS reorganisation because it says or implies that some of the changes have made an already complicated structure even more unwieldy.. Rose is expected to conclude that the NHS is staffed by dedicated employees with a willingness to improve but who are held back by a system that includes poor practices for managing, training and developing people. The role of the much criticised regulator the Care Quality Commission is expected to come in for a further beating, the report saying it has contributed to turning the NHS into what he has described as “a multi-headed hydra”.. It is also expected to criticise the way the federated structure of the NHS allows underperforming managers to move from one hospital to another with little attempt to debar or retrain them.. In appointing Rose last February, the health secretary said he wanted the former retail boss to focus on how to change the culture in underperforming hospitals. He also insisted the review would exclude the politically sensitive issues of ownership structures, outsourcing and the use of the private sector in providing care.. Sir Stuart, now chairman of Ocado, started working at M&S in 1972 as a trainee, rose through the ranks to become chief executive in 2004 and left the firm in 2011.. On his appointment to lead the inquiry, he admitted the NHS is a very different institution from M&S, but said: “Leadership, motivating staff and creating a culture where people are empowered to do things differently are crucial to the success of any organisation.”. Since then his understanding of the dedication of NHS staff has grown but he has been struck by the way underperforming senior managers are paid off only to appear at another hospital in a different well-paid guise.. His report comes as it has emerged that more than 3,000 operations have been cancelled by the NHS in the first two weeks of this month owing to “unprecedented demand”. Figures . show 3,113 elective operations were cancelled in that period, up by almost half on the same period in 2012 and by 16% on the first two weeks of December 2013. On 8 December, 410 elective operations were cancelled – the single worst day so far this winter and 100 operations more than last winter’s peak figure.. Of operations classed as urgent, 161 were cancelled in the two-week period, with some having been cancelled twice or more.. The figures, highlighted by Labour, show the repercussions of A&E departments under severe stress and a lack of beds for patients in need, said Shafi Ahmed, a consultant general and member of the Royal College of Surgeons.. “There is currently unprecedented demand on the NHS resulting in more cancellations of planned surgical operations.. “As a practising surgeon, looking after cancer patients, it is very difficult to have to tell a patient who has prepared themselves for a major procedure that their operation has been cancelled for non-clinical reasons.. “To reduce pressures on hospitals and to keep a flow of patients coming in and leaving hospital, we need to manage the number of available beds more efficiently. To achieve this, we need to reduce unnecessary admissions and visits to A&E and improve community care.”. Ahmed said improvements were also required regarding discharge arrangements, to avoid patients staying in hospital longer than necessary, and said ringfencing of beds for high dependency care should be considered.. The shadow health secretary, Andy Burnham, said: “This is yet another sign that, under David Cameron, the NHS is simply not working.. “Standards of patient care are slipping by the week and now more and more people get ready for an operation only to face a last-minute postponement.. “The chaos in A&E is spreading through the NHS. Hospitals are in danger of becoming overwhelmed as the government takes social care away from older people and makes it harder to see a GP. These cancellations help to explain why operation waiting lists are at a six-year high.”. The Department of .  told the Sunday Times the figures show “the proportion of cancelled operations remains remarkably stable over many years”, adding that more operations are being carried out amid an ageing population.