The government will face a public backlash if the .  does not get billions of pounds in extra funding on an annual basis, the head of the health service in England has predicted.. , the chief executive of NHS England, said he had hoped for more annual funding than the £2bn injection promised by George Osborne, the chancellor, if the Conservatives won the election. Labour has promised an annual £2.5bn paid for by a levy on cigarette companies.. However, Stevens has outlined an £8bn-a-year funding gap between what the NHS gets and what it needs to deal with increasing demand because of population growth and people living longer.. He told the Financial Times that a “boom-bust” attitude to funding was “inefficient for taxpayers and bad for patients”.. “Either we have a thoughtful, sequenced series of annual real funding increases, building on next year’s ‘downpayment’, against which the health service can plan and make the necessary efficiencies, or we have a heavily constrained squeeze,” Stevens told the paper.. With any such constraint, he added, there would be “some form of public backlash … by the second half of the parliament and then a further spurt of catch-up to compensate for that”.. His warning coincides with a 27-page dossier and poster from .  claiming the NHS cannot survive another five years of the Conservatives.. Andy Burnham, the shadow health secretary, said he was not suggesting the Tories would close down the NHS but that it would be plunged into crisis under their leadership.. “If the NHS stays on its current course it will be sunk by a toxic mix of cuts and privatisation,” he told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme on Monday. “It is the fact that public spending at the levels the government is projecting would cause a very serious crisis, in my view, in the NHS. But it’s secondly about the ideology. We have a bill that was put through, without a mandate from the public, which has put the NHS on a path towards privatisation and marketisation. And those two things in place would change the character our National .  Service beyond recognition.”. Challenged over whether this was scare-mongering, he said: “Absolutely not, these are the facts. The Office for Budget Responsibility said that straight after the autumn statement and people need to understand the implications that will hold for the NHS. What we’ve seen in this parliament … is very severe cuts to social care which are the root cause now of a very serious and growing problem in the National Health Service.”. He acknowledged Labour had begun tendering in the NHS to any qualified provider but said the coalition has gone much further down the road of privatisation under its health reforms.. “We brought in the private sector to bring in extra capacity to bring down NHS waiting lists, and we did,” he said. “But there is a very big difference about using the private sector to replace NHS capacity and that is the effect of the Health and Social Care Act 2012.. “I have said myself that I believe we let the market in too far. And it’s my view that if you carry on with this experimentation with the market in the NHS you will in the end destroy everything that is precious about it. People value it because it is based on people not profits. Now I am saying that very clearly should be the Labour position, the position from which we fight the general election.”