’ve worked as doctor in the NHS for over 30 years. It’s a world class institution and was last year .  for quality of patient care and value for money by the respected Commonwealth Fund. But the position of the NHS as the gold standard of health services is under threat.. Looking back on the last 12 months, if I had to sum up what 2014 meant for the . , it would be the year that the cracks began to show. In the last year – more than any other period during my time as a doctor – I’ve seen a combination of years of underfunding and an unstoppable rise in demand really start to bite.. Overstretched services are no longer able to keep up with rising demand: patients face longer waits to see their GPs, who are now conducting 40 million more consultations a year than in 2008; A&E waiting times are some of the worst they’ve been in a decade; waiting lists are at a recent high with millions of people waiting for treatment in hospital. In 2014 the NHS experienced not just a winter crisis, but a spring, summer, autumn crisis as well, with hospitals reaching capacity during the summer months, well before the seasonal spike in demand kicked in.. Doctors, nurses and other frontline staff are working flat out, but the system simply can’t cope with the number of patients coming through the door. Staff are left frustrated that time pressures and excessive workloads mean they can’t deliver the quality of care that they want to for their patients.. While workloads are rising, wages have been chipped away at and are now at 2008 levels. Morale is low. This matters because frontline staff are the beating heart of our health service. The NHS needs a motivated and enthusiastic workforce if it is to rise to the challenges facing it yet in many parts of the NHS, especially general practice and emergency medicine, the pressure is becoming too much, sparking a recruitment and retention crisis.. In October talks stalled over changes to consultant and junior doctors’ contracts, with the BMA refusing to agree changes that would compromise patient care and safe working patterns for doctors. The doctors pay review body, the DDRB, has been tasked with looking at the contracts and making recommendations in 2015 on pay and working patterns, but doctors’ faith in the independence of the DDRB has been damaged in recent years as real term cuts to pay have become the norm.. In the last year we’ve also started to see the effects of the government’s top-down reorganisation take hold. Despite politicians’ claims that the .  and Social Care Act would not lead to privatisation, 2014 instead marked a year of creeping privatisation. Enforcing competition in the NHS has not only led to services being fragmented at a time when we need to deliver more joined-up care, but it has also diverted vital funding away from frontline services to costly, complicated tendering processes.. It also means that the NHS is now subject to the same . as banks and supermarkets. We’re seeing ludicrous examples of NHS providers not being able to bid for the services they’re currently providing,. because of a perceived conflict of interest, and reports of . .. Looking ahead, in the short-term at least, it seems that politicians are finally getting the message on NHS funding. While the NHS will be a key election issue this year, it’s crucial that it doesn’t become a political football.. In the longer term, the scale of the challenge facing the NHS is eye watering. One in three people in the UK are aged over 50. The number of over 65s is expected to increase by 50% in the next 20 years. By 2030 a third of Britons are projected to be obese. Remarkable advances in healthcare mean people are living longer and survival rates for diseases such as cancer are improving. But this also means more people are living with life-long conditions, such as diabetes, and have complex medical needs. Unless we find a sustainable way of dealing with an unprecedented rise in demand, our health service will not be able to cope.. If the NHS is to survive then we need to get back to basics – a health service which is properly funded, adequately staffed, with patients and clinicians in the driving seat. Healthcare which is public, integrated, not a two tier, part-privatised health market. It’s not too late to turn things around, but if we don’t act now it soon will be.. Healthcare isn’t a privilege, or a charity, it is a fundamental human right. We need to fight for it.