Hospital A&E units recorded their worst ever performance in the week before Christmas as .  emergency care services struggled to deal with an unprecedented number of patients, figures show.. “Type 1” A&Es, emergency departments based at hospitals in England, treated and either admitted or discharged just 83.1% of arrivals within the politically important four-hour target in the week ending Sunday, 21 December.. The NHS also recorded its worst ever A&E performance using the preferred measure of NHS England and the Department of Health: this includes patients receiving urgent and emergency care in settings such as walk-in and urgent care centres, which are based at GP surgeries, on high streets or at some hospitals.. In the week before Christmas, just 88.8% of those arriving at all those places were dealt with within four hours, though that rose to 90.5% the following week. The 88.8% performance is the worst yet against the four-hour target, and was a drop on the 89.6% seen a week before, which was itself a record low.. The British Medical Association (BMA), which represents doctors, said the NHS was “struggling to cope with the sheer number of patients coming through the door”.. The NHS constitution states that 95% of all A&E patients should be dealt with within four hours. David Cameron and other ministers have regularly pledged to meet that and other key NHS targets, but performances gradually worsened during 2014.. The 83.1% record is the lowest weekly performance against the target since A&E records began in 2004. It came in the week that a record number of people – 289,530 – attended A&E.. Type 1 performance recovered slightly in the Christmas week, reaching 85.7% in the week to 28 December, partly because fewer patients attended – 262,879.. Before December, the performance of hospital-based A&E units had only fallen below 90% once during 2014. Statistics released by NHS England on Tuesday show that in the four weeks in December it dropped to 87.7% (week ending 7 December), 84.7% (14 December), then 83.1% and 85.7% in the last two full weeks of the year.. The new evidence of a growing crisis in A&E comes as more hospitals are having to declare a “major incident” as they fail to cope with what doctors and managers have said are unprecedented numbers of patients. .  regularly have to increase their bed capacity by opening overflow or “contingency” wards where they can admit and treat extra patients and hiring extra staff to provide care there.. A year-on-year comparison of the last two weeks in December shows that the number of patients forced to wait more than four hours to be treated was almost treble what it was in the same fortnight in 2013. Similarly, the number who had to endure a “trolley wait” of between four and 12 hours before being admitted to a bed almost quadrupled.. While 227,400 patients had to wait more than four hours in the last three months of 2013, many more did so in the final quarter of 2014 – 407,844.. Trolley waits rose across the most recent quarter, from 39,849 in October to 90,338 in December. This sharp rise prompted the NHS England medical director, Prof Bruce Keogh, to write to all hospitals before Christmas, urging them to improve their performance and warning of the risks to patients left waiting for too long on trolleys.. Across the three months from October to December 2014, 92.6% of all types of A&E patients were treated within four hours – the worst figure since the NHS began monitoring its performance against the standard.. Under the Labour government, 98% of all types of patients had to be treated within four hours, but the coalition relaxed that in 2010 to the current 95%.. Speaking before the publication of the figures, the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt, acknowledged the NHS was under immense pressure, but insisted the four-hour target was being met in 90% of cases. The cautiously upbeat remarks by Hunt, who said that England had the best record for emergency treatment among countries which compile records, contrasted with those of his Liberal Democrat ministerial colleague Norman Lamb, who said the NHS was not meeting its targets.. Andy Burnham, the shadow health secretary, said the government should take emergency steps to help the NHS cope.. “These figures are extremely serious … and it shows that our National .  Service today is under extreme pressure all round the country,” he said. “The secretary of state hasn’t put plans in place to ensure the NHS can get safely through the winter. He must urgently do so.”. The BMA demanded urgent improvements to the overall system of NHS care to relieve the mounting pressure on hospitals, such as improvements to the NHS 111 telephone advice service and better provision of social care services to help vulnerable patients stay well at home.. “Patients should be treated on the basis of need, rather than arbitrary targets, but these figures show the NHS is under unprecedented levels of pressure. Staff are working flat out but the system is struggling to cope with the sheer number of patients coming through the door.. “Growing pressure on services throughout the year means hospitals have no spare capacity to deal with the winter spike in demand. So patients are enduring delays in their treatment, and the NHS finds itself running just to stand still”, said Dr Mark Porter, the BMA’s leader.. “Doctors must be able to treat the patient who’s in front of them based on their individual needs, which is why doctors don’t agree with targets for targets’ sake. Moving away from a system which prioritises targets above all else can help to improve the quality of care doctors are able to give patients by preventing rushed admissions or leaving those most in need waiting longer for treatment. But this will only work in the best interests of patients, if the NHS has the staff and resources it needs to meet rising patient demand,” he said.. The Royal College of Nursing said the A&E figures were evidence that the overall health and social care system was in crisis and demanded proper funding to fix the growing problems.. “These figures show what patients and staff already know – A&E departments are constantly running at full capacity. Patients and hardworking staff are being let down by a system which is in crisis,” said Dr Peter Carter, the union’s chief executive and general secretary.. “Hospital trusts trying to recruit more staff have been hamstrung by the short-sighted cuts to nurse training places, which means there simply aren’t enough nurses in the system. This is made worse by chronic under-resourcing of community services and social care, which means more people end up in A&E who could be better treated elsewhere.. “The government needs to stop burying its head in the sand and accept that there is a crisis in A&E, which is getting worse. Nothing short of a long-term strategy, and a significant long-term investment in our health service, will put an end to this crisis.”