All cancer doctors deal with harrowing stories. Like many, I had coped during my six years as a consultant oncologist at the Christie, by adopting a firm belief that it could never happen to me.. Unsurprising then, my sense of shock when, just over a year ago, I left my busy gastric cancer clinic to receive the results of my own biopsy, taken from a breast lump the week before.. If I am totally honest I knew what was coming. The mammograms and ultrasound scan had left me with little doubt, but I had clung to the slim hope it was just a big scare.. Despite years of training in clinical communication skills, I now know how it is that patients only recall the first sentence when bad news is broken. “I have the results of your biopsy and I am afraid it is not good news”, is what I heard my surgeon say. I had been diagnosed with breast cancer. The rest of the consultation passed in a blur.. In that moment it felt like my whole identity had been turned on its head. I was no longer a cancer doctor, I was a cancer patient with all the fears and questions that anyone faced with that diagnosis experiences: how will I cope? Who will look after the children? What will happen with work? Will my husband manage? Will I die?. In a time of bewildering uncertainty, the knowledge that the NHS machinery would kick into action and be there for me was hugely reassuring. Within two weeks I was sitting in the chemotherapy unit receiving my first cycle of chemotherapy. The efficiency and professionalism with which my case was handled lived up to high standards that I strive to attain for my own patients. We hear so much about the failings of the .  that the many small daily achievements when things go as planned often pass by unnoticed.. As an oncologist I enjoy the challenge of resolving the dilemma of what is the best treatment for my patients. As a patient I wanted nothing more than to handover that responsibility to an expert.. Patient choice is an important driver within the NHS, but for me, more important still was having confidence in the expertise of those around me to make the right decisions on my behalf. I consider myself fortunate in that I knew who I wanted to treat me – a colleague of 10 years standing. How much harder it must be for most patients who must put blind faith in those around them.. But it was impossible to completely block out my professional background. I would worry about an incidental finding on my CT scan or make (incorrect) assumptions about the significance of a mildly abnormal blood test result.. On one occasion, I stumbled across a paper in a clinical journal about survival rates in my particular type of breast cancer and made the mistake of reading it. Perhaps I was hoping for reassurance, but the stark facts in front of me had the opposite effect.. I learned my lesson, and from then on avoided reading articles about my condition and over-analysing my blood test or scan results.. There were downsides to being treated in the hospital I work at. The loss of privacy was probably the hardest to accept, though it was protected where possible.. I received my chemotherapy in a quiet side room and the doctor came to see me there. It meant I avoided bumping into my own patients while I was receiving treatment.. However, by necessity my anonymity could not be maintained in its entirety. My case was discussed at multi-disciplinary meetings and I sometimes wondered if the colleagues I walked past knew about my diagnosis or the results of my surgery before I did.. I have completed my treatment now and have made the testing transition back to work. I am able to reflect on the lessons I have learned in the last year and the unexpected insights that I will take forward with me as a doctor.. Everyone who strives to provide gold-standard treatment within the NHS knows that the big things matter; that patients receive the most up-to-date drugs in a timely fashion. But as a patient I also learned that the small things matter too. Like a friendly word from the receptionist, or the secretary you call to check on a lost appointment, like clear signposting for where to find the car park or the radiology department. All of those things help to smooth the patient journey in a way that is difficult to quantify.. As I look towards the future as a doctor within the NHS I hope to put to good use the lessons I have learned as a patient.