Congratulations to the .  in Ipswich and two home care operators, .  (West Lancashire and Chorley) and . , which have become the first adult social care providers to be rated “outstanding” under the . ’s (CQC) new inspections and grading system.. The top assessments will surely prove hugely beneficial to the care businesses that run the Ipswich home and the Lancashire agency, and the charity that runs Devon service, demonstrating why the care sector was so keen for the return of some form of grading after . .. , the CQC’s chief inspector of adult social care, says: “Each one has demonstrated that excellent care is being provided by dedicated and committed staff who are passionate about making a difference for the people they support.” . , care and support minister, adds: “These are great examples of how excellent care can be achieved by all care services.”. It’s a different story, of course, for more than 20 social care services so far labelled “inadequate”, the bottom rating. In retrospect, they would no doubt have preferred it if the system had remained one of simply assessing whether a provider was complying with minimum standards. But at least for them the only way is up.. There’s an emerging issue, however, about the consistency of the new CQC ratings across health and social care – and it’s one that threatens to cause increasing resentment, particularly among NHS hospital trusts, unless it is ironed out.. Of a total 350 social care services rated before the latest batch of results, so excluding the three “outstandings”, 245 (70%) were judged “good”, 81 (23%) as “requires improvement” and 24 (7%) “inadequate”. By contrast, of the first 38 acute hospital trusts inspected under the new approach, only nine (24%) were judged “good”, 24 (63%) as “requires improvement” and five (13%) “inadequate”.. Since those first results, one hospital trust – the .  in Surrey – has been rated outstanding and latest results on the CQC website do show a higher proportion of acute trusts being judged good. However, that proportion is still a minority.. The CQC says it remains early days for the new system, especially when considering the emerging ratings for other services. In mental health, four services have been rated good, four as requires improvement and one inadequate. In primary care, 11 GP practices have been rated good and six as requires improvement.. The point is made also that the much larger size of acute trusts renders them more vulnerable to having their overall rating dragged down by a bad assessment of one department – something that would not apply to a small care home or domiciliary service.. A third issue may be that selection of the first acute trusts to be inspected under the new approach was, in the words of a CQC spokesperson, “slightly more weighted towards those that presented a higher risk”, based on information gathered from local knowledge and monitoring. In other words, suspected bad risks were targeted upfront.. All these factors have probably had some effect. It may well be that results will settle down over time and trends will converge. But if current glaring inconsistencies persist – two in three social care providers seen as good, two in three hospitals seen as falling short – the CQC will have some explaining to do.