In an election year – and at a time when life for staff on the NHS frontline has never been tougher – I’d love to think that politicians would call a truce on point-scoring over the NHS. This might be naive, but if they knew how offensive floating voters find the use of our .  as a political punching bag, might they stop?. Twenty per cent of NHS staff are from BME backgrounds. But BME people are all but invisible in NHS leadership roles. In 2015, we expect to see the unveiling of . , a Jamaican woman who went to the Crimean War at her own expense to nurse wounded and dying British soldiers. Directly opposite the Palace of Westminster, the statue will be a symbol of courage and hope to all steadfast about the need for change. . We saw encouraging signs during 2014 of a gradual reduction of the stigma of mental illness. But there is much more to do. The stigma has resulted in unequal NHS funding in many local areas, despite the parity of esteem policy (of valuing mental health equally with physical health). Expect to see a gearing up of the highly effective . , and to hear more directly from articulate patients about why mental health matters so much.. Leaders who fail to engage in social media (broadcasting less and listening more) will become increasingly like the dinosaurs. We will see more social movements started directly by frontline clinicians such as . , created by Kate Granger. .  will seed thousands of changes, small and big, by NHS people who won’t wait for permission to do things differently. Regulators and managers, please note: if you want patients to get outstanding care, reduce bureaucracy and nurture the creativity of staff, including forgiving those who try new things that won’t always work or make mistakes because they are human.. I hope we can all get some. The NHS is a wonderful thing. It is the best in the world, . . But if you listen to some reports, you might think the NHS was failing wholesale, with just a handful of exceptions. This is hugely damaging – to staff morale, recruitment, retention and, most of all, to patient and public confidence and hopefulness. In 2015, let’s remind ourselves what anyone with a rudimentary grasp of psychology will tell you: you don’t motivate people by ignoring their assets and highlighting their deficits. You don’t improve morale or discipline by publicly criticising those working extremely hard with insufficient resources and ever-growing demand, or by setting one part of a system up against another in a blame-game or pseudo-competition. And you don’t give those using the NHS much-needed confidence by only ever highlighting perceived failings, some of which are artefacts because we are the only country in the world to measure such things.. The NHS is run by humans. And in the face of massive challenges, humans on average need about 10 times as much praise to constructive criticism if they are not to become demoralised and hopeless. Let’s copy all other evidence-based industries and change our approach before it is too late.. Happy 2015 NHS. We love you very much.