While Britain’s healthy life expectancy – the time people live free of disease or disability – is lengthening, there has also never been more illness. Obesity, drinking and smoking are producing an ever-larger toll of lifestyle-related diseases such as cancer, diabetes and drink-related liver damage.. More older people mean more broken bones, more dementia, more infections, more failing hearts and lungs and much else besides. That trend will only continue. And the problem is compounded in the depths of winter, with colds and vomiting outbreaks common – though no significant outbreak has yet hit this winter.. Though the statistics aren’t measured any more, . the number of people with mental health problems arriving at A&Es is increasing.. There are suggestions that the new non-emergency line, introduced last year, is sending too many people to hospital. . that 7% of callers are told to attend A&E and in one in 10 cases they are sent an ambulance. Call handlers follow a script and, according to Suzanne Mason, professor of emergency medicine at Sheffield University: “There are certain times of day and days of the week when call handlers get to the bottom of the algorithm and look at what services are available locally and there isn’t anything there.”. There is a recruitment crisis in the . . Older GPs are retiring early to avoid burnout and too few newly qualified doctors are opting to join general practice. The result is long waits for appointments – meaning patients increasingly use A&E as their first, rather than last, port of call. More hospitals are pleading with patients to seek help elsewhere for less serious problems, but to no avail.. Lifestyles are changing and the NHS isn’t catching up. .  found people aged 18 to 34 are more than twice as likely to visit A&E departments or walk-in centres than those aged 55 and over. It suggests that younger working people are finding it harder to wrestle GP appointments into their schedules and instead ending up in A&E.. Heavy cuts to social care services have followed austerity’s deep cuts to local council budgets. Older and frail people who end up in hospital become harder to discharge without social care to look after them at home, causing bed blockages that have knock-on effects for A&Es who then can’t discharge people to full wards.