rom the beginning of December it became a contractual requirement that all GP practices implement the .  (FFT). This change led me to wonder what I might write on this form after my next visit to my GP.. I have to confess that I don’t normally fill in an FFT form on my frequent visits to hospitals unless I have something to grumble about. If, for example, I had been waiting 30 minutes but there was no board showing delays, or if there was, it was not being filled in; or my appointment was well over the 18 week limit from referral, then I would use the FFT form to complain about this.. For my GP my FFT form would be very different. To start with, I can always get an appointment on the day – if I ring at 8am sharp. Therefore, I find it puzzling and shocking that according to one statistic, . . Why not?. The receptionist is always helpful and all the staff generally appear relaxed. All is calm and stress-free. None of them are about to retire early or get on a plane to Australia because they are stressed out, or because they are paid less than they were in 2004.. I seldom have to wait for more than half an hour. My named GP ignores any ruling that limits a consultation to ten minutes and is happy to spend half an hour sorting out my co-morbidities when they get a bit complex. It’s not only me: a few months ago, she spent an hour or more on several out-of-hours home visits to a dying friend.. Diagnostically, most of the doctors in the practice are spot on. Their only tendency is to over-refer. To me this is preferable to missing a serious complaint. One doctor in the practice has saved my life twice in the last twenty years by diagnosing two potentially life-threatening conditions promptly and packing me off to hospital for surgery.. All the doctors in the practice have mastered the art of giving me full eye-contact, but at the same time checking my record on the screen, and then typing in the notes on my visit as I leave the surgery. There is no staying in the surgery after hours catching up. I suspect that this skill is rare, and may explain, why they do not appear as pressed as most GP-spokespeople claim all .  to be. I suspect they are just more skilled in managing their time. The surgery has been paperless for ten years. The only paper is snail-mailed letters from hospitals, which are scanned on arrival. The doctors do not have to waste time shuffling through paper files. This is very different from my appointments with hospital doctors, which are paper-based.. Possibly the best thing about this practice is that my family and I have attended it for 48 years and over this time we have had only four named doctors. Continuity is at the heart of general practice, but I find that many of my contemporaries do not get it.. My friends and family form would be pretty glowing. I really can’t think of anything snarky to say, which is unlike me. But the question I am always asking myself is: “If my GP practice is this good, why can’t other GPs do as well?” From what I hear from my contemporaries and what I read in the patient-comment section of healthcare blogs, and reading between the lines of what GPs reveal about themselves in the pages of GP house-magazines, most of the others are miles behind.