If you're sacrificing snacks to cut calories, stop—to lose weight, you .  snacks. "Snacking is an opportunity to fuel your body between meals," says nutritionist Rania Batayneh, author of . . Healthy snacks ensure you won't be ravenous come mealtime and keep your .  revved up. Here are 21 nutritionist-approved choices for both store-bought and make-your-own snacks. Each nosh packs 150 to 200 calories, is filled with good-for-you nutrients, and will make you feel like your diet is about anything but deprivation.. 
                  . 
                  .  Racing Weight Cookbook: Lean, Light Recipes for Athletes, . $6; . The amaranth, quinoa, millet, buckwheat, and .  oats in .  meet one-third of your daily whole grain needs. Apart from lowering your cholesterol, research in the .  suggests a diet .  can help you burn fat.. $7; . Freekeh is a cereal made from roasted green wheat. That's the one and only ingredient in . , making it an ideal packaged snack. With zero sodium, four grams of fiber, six grams of protein, and only 130 calories per quarter-cup serving, you can help yourself to an extra-large serving. Try rosemary sage or tamari when you want to mix things up.. Dip 10 .  ($3; . ) in the cottage cheese, or enjoy them side-by-side. A half-cup serving of cottage cheese contains one-quarter of your recommended daily intake of protein. Rather than a nonfat variety, go for 2% or even full-fat. The fat combined with the .  will keep your stomach full until mealtime..  $36 for 6; . This entire pint will only set you back 150 calories. Better yet, it packs 12 grams of protein and 8 grams of fiber. Add fruit, nuts, and other toppings for a perfect . .. $21 for 4; . Whatever less-than-healthy potato chip variety you like, chances are .  has a similar flavor without all of the fat. The zesty nacho variety, for instance, has 0.5 grams saturated fat, 6 grams of protein, and seven times your daily quota of vitamin K, which helps maintain strong bones. As an alternative, you could . .. $21 for 24; . The name might say "classic," but these kernels are anything but what you grew up eating. Flavors include bacon ranch, American cheese, and cinnamon sugar kettlecorn, and come with as few as five simple and natural ingredients. You could also make your own .  at home.. Pair your pear with a tablespoon of almond butter for the perfect carb and protein combination. Boost its health profile with a dash of cinnamon: A 2012 .  study found that the spice helps stabilize blood sugar levels.. $6; . Don't worry, this .  gas station jerky. It comes in flavors like lemon garlic and basil citrus, is loaded with protein, and is 97% fat free. The basil citrus pairs nicely with an orange.. Some research has shown that an active ingredient in green tea, EGCG, may help you shed pounds. But when it comes to snacking, a cup of tea isn’t likely to quell your appetite. For a more filling option that still reaps all the fat-burning benefits of green tea, try this spiced smoothie. It contains a tasty blend of chilled green tea, lemon juice, agave, pear, plain yogurt, and a pinch of cayenne for some extra metabolism-boosting power.. When hunger strikes, a hardboiled egg is a great grab-and-go snack. It’s high in protein, which will curb your appetite and keep you from reaching for something less-than-healthy. Plus it packs nutrients like vitamins D and B12, but only contains 77 calories. Simply .  at once, and store them in the fridge for a quick hunger fix.. If you’re craving chips and dip but don’t want to compromise your healthy diet, reach of some buckwheat crackers with herby edamame dip instead. Both buckwheat groats and edamame are packed with protein, making them an ideal option to help ward off hunger. Buckwheat groats also filled with nutrients like zinc, copper, manganese, and magnesium. Plus this dip is so creamy and flavorful, you’ll likely forget that it’s actually healthy.