era Baird finds herself in a curious position. Her political party wants to scrap her job, but would use the savings to invest in a cause dear to her heart. Who knows, she might even get another post out of it.. Baird, police and crime commissioner (PCC) for Northumbria, has made countering domestic and sexual violence and abuse not just her priority in her current role, but her life’s work. She is determined to see services for victims recognised as an integral part of 21st-century welfare provision.. “In a modern welfare state you can’t have women – one in four women at some time in their life – groping around in the hope that there are services to help them,” says Baird, 64, a QC and former MP who was solicitor general for England and Wales in the last Labour government. “Besides, it’s all about investing to save.”. She is struck by the way austerity in the public services is exposing how the tentacles of domestic abuse have spread into sectors such as housing, health and education. Cuts in funds like the .  show how tackling abuse, and dealing with its consequences, has extended way beyond provision of refuges – and how that kind of wider intervention is at risk.. To redress the balance, and stop much higher costs being incurred elsewhere in the public services, Labour is to promise in its general election manifesto a programme of measures entitled . . Drawn up by Baird, and based on the work of a commission she led, the programme would include the appointment of a commissioner to integrate cross-government policies for protection of women and girls.. Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper .  introduced by the coalition government a little over two years ago. While Baird would lose her Northumbria post in such a scenario, her credentials for the proposed new national role look impeccable.. That’s mere speculation, however. For now, Baird is focused on putting some of her key ideas into practice in her north-east laboratory, which she oversees from her office on an anonymous business park on the outskirts of Newcastle upon Tyne.. She is fortunate, she says, that Northumbria police has a relatively good – “though not marvellous” – record on dealing with domestic abuse, being one of only a handful of forces spared scathing criticism in the .  on the subject last March. Local councils, particularly Newcastle, recognise the importance of the problem both in its own right and as a contributor to other issues, such as homelessness and child abuse, and employers in the region are signing up in growing numbers to a domestic and sexual violence champions network.. The police have all had some training in dealing with domestic abuse, have a specialist worker attached to the force and are seeking to improve profiling of perpetrators so as to identify the most appropriate response.. This chimes with national research due to be released shortly on whether perpetrator programmes reduce domestic violence by men. The research, known as .  and carried out over five years among 600 perpetrators, is expected to conclude that programmes are not effective for all men, but can be for those who have been violent at home, often repeatedly, but are otherwise not criminal by nature. “The general view has been that perpetrator programmes don’t work,” says Baird. “But I think Project Mirabal will say it’s about sorting out the perpetrators. This should change the tide.”. Baird admits to having changed her mind on the value of . , which police can issue to exclude a violent man from the family home for up to 48 hours, and prevention orders, which a magistrate can issue to extend an exclusion for up to 28 days. The measures were extended across England and Wales last year.. “I didn’t think there was much point in them at first, because you could always arrest the perpetrator and put them on bail,” she says. “But it does change the cops’ perception that she should leave. We take her out, we take the kids out, we even take the dog and cat out, but actually a lot of times it makes most sense just to put him out. It gives her some space to discuss what she wants to do, and make proper arrangements, and tells her that the powers-that-be are on her side, not his.”. She accepts, though, that a lot of domestic abuse is “not about black eyes” but about so-called coercive control – “not letting her have any money, following her when she goes out, texting her every five minutes, discouraging her family from coming round, calling her names, telling her she is ugly and her cooking is terrible, all of it incredibly undermining”.. This sort of abuse can by definition be hard to spot. To help the police do so, Baird is running pilot schemes in Sunderland and Newcastle whereby officers are accompanied by specialist workers when they visit homes where abuse is suspected. In an earlier pilot, in the town of Washington, 55% of women who were visited subsequently made contact with the refuge where the workers were based. As few as 1% would typically do so, says Baird, adding that “the cops think their risk assessments are much better because they are being done jointly with experienced refuge workers”.. The home secretary, Theresa May, . , amending a Home Office bill already in passage, to make “coercive and controlling behaviour” an offence punishable by up to five years in prison and a fine.. Baird sympathises, but is unsure the idea is practical. “I’m not myself convinced that making it a criminal offence is the right thing to do,” she says. “What I am sure about is that the courts have got to start counting domestic violence. That’s what matters.”. In the north-east as a whole, including the Cleveland and Durham police force areas as well as Northumbria, 26,000 women make formal complaints about domestic violence in the course of a year. Baird thinks that’s about one in five of all victims. She and her two fellow PCCs for the region have been campaigning for local courts to take a stronger line on cases that are prosecuted, and .  they accuse of flouting sentencing guidelines, but she says it is impossible to know if sentences are in line with those for other offences of violence because cases are not logged separately.. Beyond better counting, though, the big change Baird wants to see is for domestic abuse to become an issue owned by society more broadly: by community groups, alert to it in their neighbourhoods; by employers, appointing champions trained to respond to signs that colleagues are suffering it at home; and by other state agencies and housing organisations, sharing responsibility currently shouldered too much by the police.. She thinks the . , or Maracs, which focus on a small minority of high-risk cases, have become too “enormous” a drain on limited resources – though she recognises they have saved lives. “The truth is that you need some similar arrangement that starts with low-risk people, so they can get out before it all becomes high-risk. There has got to be a structure that will allow everybody to get similar support.”. The blueprint for the future, she believes, is the multi-agency strategic hub, or Mash, which permanently co-locates staff from different agencies. There is an existing Mash in Sunderland for child safeguarding. “When somebody comes through any door, they are straight away in the middle of all of the agencies. My guess is that that’s the way forward for domestic abuse.”. Some people think another option would be to have a national inquiry into domestic abuse. Baird disagrees. “We know what to do,” she says. “We’ve known for years what to do. It’s just getting it through to the frontline.”