he announcement that Circle has withdrawn from its contract to run Hinchingbrooke hospital after the Care Quality Commission .  has predictably delighted those who are against outsourcing NHS services to the private sector. . But patients and the public should not rejoice at Circle’s decision. The hospital was in a financial mess and faced with closure when Circle took it over three years ago. Its debts were £39m on a turnover of £73m and Circle agreed to eliminate the debt and leave the NHS with several million pounds to spare. It planned to achieve this by . , a total saving of . . . Although it appears that none of the debt has been paid off, Circle has reduced the hospital’s annual loss to £1m and kept it open. This outsourcing initiative was started in 2009 under the last Labour government. But Circle’s hands were tied in that . , so Circle lacked the freedoms of privately-owned hospitals. Despite that, it took the risk – and could not have foreseen the increase in A&E patient numbers. . Before those against outsourcing celebrate too much, they should consider if the hospital will now be viable if taken over by the NHS, particularly given the state of NHS finances. The .  will inherit the hospital’s remaining debt and must ensure it no longer runs in the red. Staff and the public could lose more now the contract has ended.. As the .  pointed out, the contract illustrates the naivety of attempting to pass too much risk to the private sector, particularly if it is unquantifiable. The Circle contract was for 10 years. Who can predict the future for NHS service requirements that far ahead? The A&E crisis currently faced by the NHS is partly because it wasn’t expected.. When public sector organisations let contracts, they do not outsource the risk, whatever the contract states. If the supplier is unable to deliver the contract, the risk goes back to the public sector organisation responsible for ensuring that the service is delivered. Both Circle and the NHS East of England Strategic Health Authority were over-optimistic about the risks and due diligence was flawed.. The real debate should not be over whether outsourcing is good or bad. It is about good commercial judgment and contracting. But very few public sector organisations have, or could retain, sufficient expertise for letting one-off major contracts. They have not had the experience to be able to determine if large-scale operations would be better kept in-house or outsourced.. The . , the body that provides professional procurement advice to the public sector, needs a team of experts in letting and managing such contracts, who understand risk management and are able to make objective decisions about whether a contract should be let. Until this is done and its use made mandatory, expect plenty more problems with major contracts.