ecilia Anim hasn’t had the gentlest of introductions to her new role as the voice of nurses across the UK. Just days after taking office as the president of the Royal College of Nursing (RCN), she’s fielding questions about the most serious crisis to hit the NHS in years, as .  and patients are forced to lie on trolleys for hours on end.. It is a crisis that Anim says nurses have seen brewing. “It’s been a gradual drip, drip, drip of cuts over the past four years – when district nursing posts were cut, when training places were cut, when pay restraint came in so the younger ones are not coming into nursing,” she says. “We see politicians on the telly trying to put sticking plasters on a bleeding wound but what we need is long-term structured planning where clinicians are at the forefront of decision making that affects the delivery of care.”. Anim, who has worked as a nurse for four decades and was an RCN steward and health-and-safety rep for 17 years, says nurses are under stress as never before. “This is such a challenging time for nursing. What we actually trained to do we are not able to do due to the pressures in the workplace and the pressures on resources. The general wellbeing of nursing staff is a great concern to me. Morale is very low.”. Anim’s election as RCN president not only gives her the opportunity to speak out on the problems in the . , but it is also a landmark moment, making her the first president from a black and minority ethnic (BME) background in the RCN’s 99-year history.. She says that distinction brings with it a certain amount of pressure. “Someone said to me, is it going to be the Obama effect? You know, he came in and then all of a sudden he’s been portrayed as a lame duck. People are going to judge you – there’s some element in the psyche that says so-and-so came in and didn’t do anything.” But she adds that making history is also a source of pride. “I have maybe opened the doors for people from my background who thought it would never happen,” she says. “Before my first election [as RCN deputy president] I had comments like ‘no-one will vote for you, don’t bother’. But it did happen.”. People from BME communities are still poorly represented at the highest levels of the NHS, with. last year showing that only 3% of nursing directors were from a BME background, a proportion that had not increased in a decade. But Anim says she’s hopeful of change. “A lot of BME nurses are highly qualified to take up these roles so what we need to do is encourage them to go forward. They can aspire – we need to knock that glass ceiling down.”. Her own background, coming to the UK in the 1970s after originally training as a midwife in Ghana, gives her a perspective on the current debate over the NHS’s reliance on recruiting nurses from overseas. She says individual nurses should be free to decide whether to come – but she wants both an ethical recruitment policy which doesn’t strip countries of large numbers of nurses they have trained, and sufficient training of nurses here. She points to a . , showing 8,000 nursing posts unfilled in London alone. “Our population is growing, so we need to have long-term workforce planning. It’s no good having a sticking plaster solution as the plaster is not holding.”. Ensuring enough student nursing places will feature in the RCN’s campaigning in the runup to the general election as too will its push for nurses to be paid for the actual hours they put in. Anim says a fair reward is important for nurses – but it’s not just about the money.. “Yes, we are human beings and we need to be taken care of, we need to pay our mortgages, but I think if we were going into a career just for money we’d all be working in the City,” she says. “We need to make the profession attractive because it is a challenging profession. When you are trying to make a difference in somebody’s life you have to use your own innermost resources. It is a vocation. We need somebody to care for the carers so that we can give better care. We know patient outcomes improve very well where the environment of care is free from stress and pressures and the people giving care are respected and valued.”. One of her priorities will be to highlight this vocational side to nursing, in the face of the hammering she says nurses have taken in recent times after failings in care such as the Mid Staffs scandal. “Nurses want to give excellent care but sometimes circumstances prevent them from doing that,” she says. “We give up our breaks to look after patients if the ward is very busy or the clinic is busy. Nurses sacrifice a lot and I think it’s about time the politicians took note.”. Anim will continue her frontline nursing work as a sexual health specialist in London, splitting her time between this and the president’s role. She is elected by members and is keen to get them more involved in campaigning for the profession. “My vision is to engage members, for them to have a voice so that collectively we can all protest to get things better for patients,” she says. During her two-year term, she says, she will campaign with nurses for clinicians to be given the “space and the tools” to secure the future of the NHS.. “When I came to the UK, comparing the NHS to what I was used to in Ghana, to me it was an A-class service. It still is an A-class service but what I have seen over the years is constant reorganisation of services, constant fragmentation of services and constant political interference,” she says. “Give the NHS to the clinicians to run and we will run it because we know what our patients need.”. But what’s needed, Anim adds, is acceptance of the scale of the task ahead. “We need an honest and frank debate about the NHS and how we want to keep it and want to keep it public. A solution could be found – the will is there. We all love the NHS, it’s like the biggest religion in the UK.”. Although she says nurses are appalled by the current crisis in the NHS, the headlines have at least focused attention on the pressure on staff and the impact that has on patients.. “If this A&E crisis hadn’t arisen, the nurses and doctors and paramedics would just be soldiering on looking after patients and no one would know what they are going through,” she says. “People think every time you open your mouth, it’s about wanting pay rises. It’s not about pay rises, it’s about quality of care and it’s about being able to do the job to deliver that quality of care.”.  67..  London borough of Brent..  Married with children..  St Ann’s Girls’ School, Ghana; Midwifery training, Komfo Anokye Hospital, Kumasi, Ghana; UK general nursing course, Hull Royal Infirmary; clinical nurse specialist (advanced family planning), Bloomsbury School of . .. Career 1979-present: clinical nurse specialist, sexual and reproductive health, Margaret Pyke centre, London; 1977 Staff nurse, paediatrics, Hull Royal Infirmary; 1968-1972 .  centre midwife, Ghana..  president, RCN; 2010-14, deputy president, RCN. Chair of school governors; member, Paddington deanery synod and parochial church council; member, London Family Planning Practitioners’ Society..  Church fundraising (organising jumble sales), flower arranging..  This article was amended on 14 January 2015 to correct the spelling of Cecilia Anim’s surname. In an earlier version it was misspelled as Amin.