The emergency care provision in the UK has been cracking for years, it just so happens that this winter it has collapsed. Why? I put it down to abuse of the 999 system. This can be unintentional, malicious or due to a lack of available primary care. In the ambulance service a “what if” culture prevails, causing healthcare professionals to be cautious to protect their registration – some paramedics fear repercussions if their decision to leave someone at home is questioned.. A typical 12-hour shift should, but rarely does, include a 15-minute check of the ambulance and its contents and a couple of meal breaks. I might see as many as 12 patients in a shift. How many of these actually need an ambulance? Not many. Not many actually need to go to A&E – four per shift is generous. Most should see a GP, visit a minor injuries unit or urgent care centre, call 111, or visit the pharmacy. It’s soul destroying.. One job I recall concerned a young person who was pretending to be unwell, but we couldn’t leave them with their family. A call came over the radio on open airwaves (only used by control as a last resort) requesting a crew for a confirmed cardiac arrest nearby; the nearest available crew was more than 30 minutes away. This is the reality of timewasters – someone potentially died because of an attention seeking act.. Why do people call 999 when they shouldn’t? A big factor is that we live in a 24-hour culture that demands immediate service. This culture is fine when I’m nine hours into my shift, starving and have five seconds to nip into a shop at 1am to grab a snack. When a patient has a cold, however, and feels like it’s got a bit worse at night, 999 isn’t the number they should be calling.. Why are these patients resourced an ambulance, sometimes even when they call .  111? The 999/111 triage systems use an algorithm and calls are rarely taken by healthcare professionals. When a patient rings with their problem, they want attention from a paramedic or a doctor, so they may exaggerate their symptoms to ensure a response. When asked: “Are you having difficulty breathing?” they say: “Yes”. This falls into the life-threatening emergency category, Red 2. This patient must now get an ambulance in eight minutes, or a target isn’t met. Crews get the following information: Red 2: eight minute response, age, sex, breathing difficulties.. Some crews now don’t drive with flashing blue lights until they get more information, especially if it’s triaged by NHS 111, Saturday night and in the middle of town. They know if they get there and become committed, someone who really needs them might miss out. This is another danger of inappropriate calls, crews are getting worn down and are tempted to take triage into their own hands – can you blame us? Do you want to pull over for an ambulance responding to a patient who has broken wind in bed? It has happened.. Current public education isn’t working and throwing money at services won’t deal with the problem. Paramedics need a universal no blame culture, the autonomy to tell patients they don’t need an ambulance, signposting them to more appropriate care (111 or GP), without having to do reams of paperwork.. Additionally, a tick box could be added to patient records when the call wasn’t appropriate. When these go to audit, a letter could be sent to the address of the patient explaining how to use NHS emergency services appropriately.. In A&E, nurses should be on reception to issue patients who shouldn’t be there with a card advising them that they are not appropriate for A&E and to call 111. If they choose to stay they should be exempted from the four-hour targets and wait as long as they have to.. This is a snapshot of the complex, interlocking problems that are challenging the NHS; the gravity of the situation can only be appreciated when you have experienced it yourself. It’s nothing like what you see on TV.