Cravings—such a dirty word when you're trying to lose weight or keep it off. No matter what your "I-want-it-now" food is—pizza, burgers, ice cream, cupcakes—you probably wrestle with what you want to do (eat it now!) with what you "should" do (go eat veggies). Unfortunately, it's true that many of our daily habits actually make .  more intense and frequent, making healthy decisions harder. That doesn't mean you can't do something about it. Learn the 10 biggest mistakes that make cravings even worse to get yours under control.. Maybe you're not hungry in the a.m., but eating some calories now can keep cravings at bay later. In one study in the . , overweight girls who ate a 350-calorie breakfast with at least 13 grams of protein had .  for sweet and savory foods compared to breakfast skippers. Researchers aren't exactly sure why, but .  may help stimulate the release of dopamine, a neurochemical involved in the brain's reward centers that can help manage cravings. A half-cup of cottage cheese, 2 hard-boiled eggs, or a cup of cooked oatmeal with two tablespoons of peanut butter will do the trick.. Craving candy? Try eating a bowl of super-sweet sliced strawberries. What about chips? Crunch on salted, in-shell pistachios. .  what you're jonesing for with a similar-tasting healthy equivalent should be enough to satisfy you, says . , RD, a spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. "Cravings are short-lived and soon you'll forget about it but will have helped your health with a good snack. It's a win-win," she says. However, if chips—and only chips—will do, count out one serving, eat them slowly, and be done.. You can't get your hand out of the bag of cheesy crackers. If you don't understand why, you can't do anything about it, says . , RD, a faculty member of Benedictine University in Lisle, IL. She recommends keeping . . It doesn't have to be anything fancy—just jot down a few notes on your phone. When a craving hits, log your emotions: you're tired, anxious, stressed, bored. Eventually, you'll pick out common patterns, and you can deal with the causes head on, rather than trying to eat as a solution.. Cravings aren't all or nothing. You can satisfy your yearning while still eating healthy by pairing a larger portion of healthy foods with a small amount of what you think you want. It works because it makes meals more fun and tasty, but still gives your body the nutrition it needs to function at its best, suggests a Vanderbilt University study. The researchers call it a ". ." So here's how to do it: order the salad with grilled salmon with a side of fries or get a piece of grilled chicken and veggies with a small bowl of mac and cheese. Fill up on the good stuff, and eat a quarter to half a portion of the splurge.