Pressure on A&E has reached critical levels. In the week leading up to Sunday 4 January, .  showed that emergency departments across England treated just 79.8% of patients within the four-hour target. This .  and the NHS figures indicate the service is on the brink of a winter crisis.. Record numbers of patients have also been forced to spend between four and 12 hours on trolleys waiting to be admitted - a further sign that the service is struggling to meet the rising demand for care, despite ministers giving it an extra £700m from elsewhere in the Department of Health’s budget. Ambulances have had to queue for at least 30 minutes outside an A&E unit in England, unable to hand over their patients to A&E staff because the emergency department was too busy.. Up to 15 hospitals have declared major or significant incidents, signifying that they cannot cope with the volume of patients. This has also led to . , up from 506 in the same period last year.. Andy Burnham, the shadow health secretary, said the growing number of postponements showed problems in A&E were now affecting other .  services.. “The A&E crisis is intensifying and spreading to other parts of the NHS. An operation being cancelled is an experience that causes a great deal of stress and anguish and it’s one nobody should have to go through,” he said. “Patients in all parts of the NHS are now being made to feel the effects of the crisis in A&E.”. The prime minister, David Cameron, said on 6 January that a .  but he insisted that around 2,500 more patients were being seen within four hours every day than four years ago. “We’ve got a short term pressure issue which we need to meet with resources and management,” Cameron told the BBC. “We’ve got a longer term issue which is making sure that there are named GPs in your local area which are responsible for every single frail, elderly person. A lot of the pressure on A&E is coming from frail, elderly people, often with many different health conditions and the best place for them, frankly, is not A&E. They should be being looked after by the family doctor or in other health settings and I think the long term challenge is to make sure those sorts of settings are more available.”. Why has this crisis come about? How is it affecting patients, NHS staff and other hospital departments? What role do GPs, social services and charities play in alleviating the crisis? What solutions are there? Is extra funding the answer?. Join our panel of experts to answer these questions and more on Friday 16 January from 12pm until 2pm.. The live chat is not video or audio-enabled but will take place in the comments section (below). Get in touch via .  or .  on Twitter. Follow the discussion using the hashtag #GdnAandE.. , chief executive officer, Pharmacy London and Kensington Chelsea & Westminster LPC . , emergency physician, A&E . , ambulance technician, South East Coast Ambulance service staff-elected governor . policy and projects officer, Acevo . , vice chair, Royal College of GPs . , assurance and delivery project officer, NHS England. , steering group member on the NHS Confederation’s community health service forum . , director of policy, Independent Age . , chief executive, south Warwickshire NHS foundation trust . The panel starts by explaining if there is an A&E crisis:. Emily Kruger from NHS England explained why the crisis is happening now:. Will the crisis get worse?. How can GPs help?. The role of social care and how money should be spent:. How can charities help?. Can NHS 111 help? How should it be promoted?. How have staff responded to the crisis?