 hospitals cancelled almost 2,500 operations last week, as emergency departments again failed to meet the target for treating patients within four hours.. The proportion of patients being treated within four hours at NHS hospital emergency departments in England was . , an improvement on the previous . , but still the third worst performance ever and well short of the 95% target.. As a result of the pressures on the NHS, 2,386 planned operations were cancelled, plus another 137 urgent operations, 11 of which had been cancelled two or more times. The equivalent figures for the same period last year were 1,298, 72 and three respectively.. The strain the NHS is under was further highlighted as it was revealed on Friday that Great Western hospital, in Swindon, temporarily closed its A&E department last week.. Statistics also .  that instances of ambulances queuing outside A&E departments for at least 30 minutes more than doubled compared with the same period last year, and bed days lost to delayed discharge of medically fit patients were higher than in any other week this winter or last.. Dr Mark Porter, chair of council at the . , said: “Another week, another set of damning figures from emergency departments – but we must remember that behind the figures is a lack of the necessary investment to give every patient the treatment they deserve, in the emergency department or elsewhere in the system.. “Patients should be treated on the basis of need, rather than arbitrary targets, but there’s no getting away from the fact the NHS under extraordinary pressure, trying to cope despite inadequate resources.”. He urged politicians to look at the issue of .  and said it was not sustainable to reduce investment in general practice while demand was on the rise and more care was moved into the community.. Porter also said NHS 111 should be made into a doctor- and nurse-led service to prevent patients being unnecessarily directed to A&E.. Hospital A&E departments have now failed to meet the target of treating 95% of patients within four hours for 78 weeks in a row. The government prefers to measure the target against all emergency departments, not just those in hospitals. By that measure, 89.8% of patients were treated within four hours last week.. Great Western hospital, which erected a . , closed the doors of its emergency department on 5 January.. Last week there were 14 instances of an A&E unit relieving pressure by diverting patients to another emergency department.. Ambulances had to queue outside A&E departments for at least half an hour on 7,743 occasions, taking the total number this winter to 72,911, and there were 20,085 bed days lost to delayed transfer of care.. Dame Barbara Hakin, NHS England’s national director of commissioning operations, said: “We continue to see and treat the vast majority of patients in England within four hours, and performance improved this past week.. “Although we have seen a slight easing in the number of attendances and emergency admissions to A&E, the NHS continues to face unprecedented pressures on its frontline services – particularly A&E, NHS 111 and ambulance services.”