Welcome to the Guardian healthcare network, an online space for professionals in the sector to discuss the latest issues in healthcare policy and practice.. Providing comment, features, online live discussions and more, we want to give healthcare professionals a dedicated space to grapple with the major challenges now facing the sector.. We're here to share the best ideas, innovative practice and leading views from the sector, with the sector. As a member, you can share your expertise, catch-up on the latest thinking in the sector and network with peers and experts to gain valuable insight and advice.. Become a member and you will be part of a professional network that stretches right across the UK. You will receive exclusive invites to our events and previews of our content online, as well as the chance to take part as a panel member in our live discussions. You will also be first to hear about top jobs in your area..  An weekly newsletter from the Healthcare network's editor with the latest content and analysis.  Invitations to free VIP networking events at Guardian HQ, such as our .  Subscriber-only content previews and exclusives.  Invitations to our online live discussions with some of the sector's most influential and innovative personalities.  A 20% discount on our extensive programme of leadership seminars.  A first look at job opportunities tailored to you. But don't just take our word for it.... "An accurate update service on all that is happening in the health and social care sector in a way that has the finger on the pulse" . "High quality debate that cuts across tribal lines" . "Healthcare Network's weekly round-up is an absolute must if you want to stay informed of the ever shifting sands of the current healthcare system" . "The healthcare network is one of the few media networks that delivers useful, relevant, balanced and interesting content quickly and consistently" . "A vibrant and innovative addition to healthcare policy" . "The Guardian healthcare network remains compulsory reading for anyone interested in evidence based analysis and opinion about healthcare" 