As a nurse who works in A&E, I run on fear. I take no breaks, spend 12 hours without going to the toilet, and go home in tears each night. Or that’s what I hear. Except this fractured picture that is painted daily is not what I recognise as my life, or at least not the full story.. Every day I get up, and as I drink the coffee that will help me through my shift, I watch on TV as people debate our weaknesses and politicians engage in point-scoring arguments that fail to produce a solution. I read blogs from staff such as myself, relishing their opportunity to finally say: “Yes, it’s awful, we’re drowning in drunks, fenced in by ‘bed blocking’.”. I go to work. It’s busy. At times, it’s overwhelming. Cubicles are full. Sometimes patients are put wherever there’s space. It’s undignified and imperfect and, despite being beyond my control, it makes me ashamed. But every one of those patients knows their plan of care, has had a cup of tea, a repeat set of observations and a friendly face. My feet hurt and my jobs list is never ending, but I get my breaks. We care for each other as well as our patients. After a bad resus call, we debrief; we make the time to give each other two minutes to our tears.. The King’s Fund recently published . . Much of what is discussed – decreased district nurses, outdated scheduling of GP care, reduced social care – is beyond the control of individual A&E departments. We cannot, in the short-term, change the context in which we work, but we can control aspects of our response to it. In our department, this includes a forthcoming .  to better direct people to more appropriate services, improving links with primary care, and plans to offer brief alcohol advice in the hope of reducing future attendances.. Despite the dark looming clouds, there are still chinks of light in my day. For every drunk person who monopolises my time, there is someone we help who wouldn’t have been reached if we didn’t exist. For every angry person who shouts about the wait time to have their sore throat looked at, there is a wealth of understanding from the general public who know we are doing the best we can.. Time is still found to hold the hand of a dying patient, to comfort a loved one, to make a frightened child laugh, to be the one person who listens to someone affected by mental ill-health. These moments are a privilege, and still happen even when it’s busy, even when while doing so my mind races with all the other tasks I need to do. Of course, more staff would be useful, and the independently-recommended .  would be welcomed, but surely we can simultaneously voice this while celebrating the positives of our job? Yes, there is the risk of burnout and mass exodus of staff, but the constant talk of this alone may be a self-fulfilling prophecy.. Every day, I work in an organisation I am passionate about. Every shift I do something that makes a difference. I am proud to be part of this team. How many people can say that about their job? We are doing what we do in undoubtedly pressing circumstances, but are, for the most part, continuing to do it. There is no doubt in my mind that we, and the failings of the current system, are being used as a tool in an ideological war. By joining in we serve only to shore up that war. This health service of ours is precious, and we need to start caring for it as such. This includes not contributing one-sidedly to the “broken NHS” rhetoric.