The Liberal Democrat health minister, Norman Lamb, has appealed for an end to party political conflict over the future of the . , warning that the health service will “break up” in the next parliament unless the necessary “big decisions” are taken.. Predicting that the next five years will be “crunch time” for the NHS, he added there was a major gap between the views of experts and those of the public in terms of understanding what needed to be embarked up to sustain the service into the future.. Lamb was . in London on the future of the health service, where he appealed for cross-party political support to achieve £30bn in NHS “efficiency savings” via a mixture of tax changes and other measures. Asked to clarify, he said that the NHS would break in the next parliament if the status quo was preserved, adding that one of the disadvantages of the party political system in the UK was that it was very difficult to have an open debate and get the public to engage with some of the big decisions that had to be made.. “The gap in understanding between the experts and where the public is at is quite large,” he said.. Lamb’s comments come after some particularly fraught exchanges between the Tories and Labour over the future of the NHS. .  last week defended the way it is campaigning on the NHS – but refused to confirm that Ed Miliband told the BBC that he wanted to “weaponise” the NHS in the election campaign.. Speaking on the same panel as Lamb, the chief executive of the Royal College of Nursing also appealed for the debate surrounding the NHS to be depoliticised. The political parties were falling over one another to make promises about the health service, said Dr Peter Carter, who added that what was needed was more detail from them and “triple locks” to make sure that they don’t row back on their pledges once they are in power.. Carter was roundly applauded when he said that the public would be prepared to pay more in taxes if they knew how it would translate into better care and improvements to the NHS.. In answer to a question from the audience about “redundant” NHS property that was unused, Lamb said he would “sell it all off” in the morning and embark on a complete digitisation of the NHS. “It’s a scandal, surely, that in this day and age we still have faxes still flying around the NHS when our lives have changed so dramatically in other sectors,” he said..  The Guardian debate, Behind the Headlines: Is there a future for the NHS? can be viewed from Wednesday on . . .  is our series of events, debates, interviews and festivals exclusively for . . Find out more about how to . .