 inspectors have put three GP surgeries into special measures for the first time after finding failings they judged to be so worrying that patients’ safety was at risk.. The Care Quality Commission has taken the unprecedented step after uncovering “significant areas of concern” at practices in Reading, Liverpool and Sale, Cheshire.. It rated all three as offering patients an inadequate service overall.. They are the first surgeries to be told to make major improvements urgently or risk being shut altogether by the NHS care watchdog taking away their licence to operate.. The CQC has taken the tough approach after inspectors found problems including too few staff, patients waiting up to four weeks to get an appointment, medical records not being kept up to date and medicines not being looked after properly at the practices.. But the watchdog’s action sparked a row with the doctors’ union, which warned that naming and shaming particular surgeries was unfair and would deepen their problems, for example by dissuading .  from going to work there to help it improve.. All three practices were classified as inadequate by CQC inspectors and each now has six months in which to dramatically overhaul how they operate or face being closed. Special measures means they will be put under strict supervision and offered a package of help to improve coordinated by NHS England and the Royal College of GPs.. The Priory Avenue Surgery in Reading has been told to make improvements in 14 areas after a visit by inspectors in November. They found that it had too few clinical staff to look after its 8,000 patients properly, appointments were being cancelled or rearranged when a GP was off sick and that details in a backlog of letters from hospitals and out of hours services had not been added to patients’ record, potentially prejudicing their care.. “It is clear that the Priory Avenue surgery has been going through a period of upheaval, with so many staff leaving that the practice simply hasn’t been able to cope. There had been constant failures in communication between the current directors and GPs, leaving the practice staff demoralised and disillusioned,” said Ruth Rankine, one of the CQC’s deputy chief inspectors of general practice.. Dr Michael Florin’s surgery in Sale, Trafford, Greater Manchester, has been given seven areas in which it has to improve after an inspection last October, preceded by other visits which gave inspectors concerns about potential threats to patients’ safety and welfare.. Although things had improved and patients praised the service, the CQC decided that medicine management was ineffective, the practice had no way of reviewing and monitoring patients on their list who may be at risk or vulnerable, and that its hygiene control policies were not good enough.. “We have rated this practice as good for caring and the patients are complimentary about the service. However, this latest inspection has shown that this practice has still got some way to go if it is to deliver the high-quality and consistent care which everyone is entitled to,” said Sue McMillan, another CQC deputy chief inspector of general practice.. The watchdog rated Dr Srinivas Dharmana’s family and general practice in Walton, Liverpool, as inadequate in terms of how safe, effective, well-led, caring and responsive it was – the five key metrics it uses to judge health service providers’ performance.. The surgery was being run by locum family doctors because Dharmana had not been involved in delivering clinical care to patients there for 12 months when inspectors visited last October.. “While patients we met spoke highly of the care they had received from this practice in the past, we heard that recently they had not been receiving the same continuity of care from the locum GPs who had been delivering services since the end of 2013,” explained McMillan.. Like the other two, the practice needed to go into special measures because it could only resolve its problems by receiving external help. That could involve extra staff arriving, new management at the practice or it being partnered with a high-performing surgery.. In all 19 hospitals have been put into special measures since July 2013 as a result of weaknesses in the way they operate, although five have come out of the regime – which the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt, pushed the CQC to adopt – after making changes.. But the British Medical Association condemned the CQC for singling out the three surgeries. Independent patient satisfaction surveys show that “the overwhelming majority” of GP practices provide the best possible service, said Dr Richard Vautrey, a family doctor in Leeds who is deputy chair of the BMA’s GPs committee.. “When in rare occasions a practice is not performing as well as it would want to there are often complex reasons which need to be fully understood. Such practices often work in very challenging situations and usually need help and support not condemnation or naming and shaming, which only makes matters worse. It also makes it doubly difficult to recruit new GPs to help resolve the problem”, he added.. The CQC began inspecting England’s 8,500 GP practices in a much more robust and inquisitive way in October, which included rating them as outstanding, good, requiring improvement or inadequate.. Of the 143 it has rated since, six have been outstanding, 112 have been good, 20 have been judged to require improvement and five, including the trio now in special measures, have been ruled “inadequate”.. The other two in that category were not put into special measures because they have made enough progress since they were inspected.