he revelation that a group of campaigners has made a complaint against more than 20 managers to the .  (CQC) under the “fit and proper persons” test opens up a new reputational battlefront for health managers.. According to the .  and . , the complaints are . , medical directors, senior executives, and . .. The fit and proper person test was introduced under the . . While much of it revolves around predictable criteria such as bankruptcy and criminality, it is an amendment in 2014 to the regulations implementing the act – regulation 5 – which exposes senior managers to many risks.. The amendment was made in response to the Winterbourne View hospital scandal and the recommendations of the Francis inquiry into Mid Staffordshire foundation trust. It says that .  or mismanagement (whether unlawful or not) in the course of carrying on a regulated activity”.. The difficulty for managers and the CQC – which oversees the test – is that it is both broad and poorly defined. Being personally responsible for serious misconduct is one thing, but being privy to mismanagement is a description that would probably fit much of the . .. On top of that, the fact that the complaints that have been lodged extend to former as well as current senior staff opens up the prospect of the CQC becoming bogged down in historical arguments about management actions and culture on which it may be hard to adjudicate with confidence.. Making difficult judgment calls is what the CQC exists to do, but the dangers around this particular set of decisions are immense. Now the complaints have been made, the CQC will convene a panel, probably chaired by the chief inspector of hospitals, Sir Mike Richards, to decide whether each one should be investigated.. If the panel adopts a narrow interpretation of the fit and proper test it risks being accused of perpetuating mismanagement. If it casts the net too wide it will open its doors to potentially huge numbers of complaints about past and present conduct at a time when it is already struggling to cope with its inspection workload.. Anything that starts to look like open season on managers could have a number of serious effects. With pay under pressure, a high attrition rate among chief executives and a widespread feeling that many managers’ jobs are becoming undoable, the emotional strain and reputational damage that will envelop anyone caught in a formal complaints process would make health service senior management even less appealing, and further deter doctors from entering management. It could also cause managers to lose confidence in the CQC again if they believe that vexatious complaints are being entertained.. That is not, of course, reason to avoid taking action against those deserving it. But there will be myriad managers who, caught in a vice of growing demand, impossible targets and relentless regulators, will have made decisions or exhibited behaviour that may well be understandable, if not entirely excusable. Should they be ruled unfit?. The test will lose credibility if it ever becomes seen as a way of settling scores, making political points or holding people to account for circumstances over which they had little control.. In deciding the right way to interpret the fit and proper person test, the CQC needs to keep focused on its original intention – keeping patients safe. It was not established as a catch-all mechanism for resolving management problems or grievances. Mission creep needs to be avoided.. The CQC says in its guidance that as it begins to apply the test “we expect to learn from what we find”. What it learns will reverberate around the NHS.