I get up at 5.30am and get into work for 7.30am. It’s early but it gives me the chance to get through my paperwork in the morning and catch up on emails, before all the patients come in.. After that, most of my morning is spent in the outpatient clinic, seeing people who have had a bone marrow transplant. It’s a busy clinic and normally I’d see about seven or eight patients in a morning.. For people with leukaemia and other blood cancers and disorders, their bone marrow transplant has given them a chance of life they would never have had, but sometimes this can also come with some late effects, which can vary hugely between patients.. Some are more straightforward, so it’s just a case of checking in quickly. Others are more complicated – their effects might be physical, such as a condition called graft versus host (GVH) disease, which can affect the gut, lungs, skin and other organs, or even psychological or social issues around work, education and finances. Whatever their concerns and wherever they are in their journey, I sit down with them to find out what’s been going on and try to get them the help they need.. The issues people face immediately after a transplant are very different from those who are experiencing longer-term effects, in the same way that young patients might have very different experiences from older patients, so I tailor my support to the individual.. At two years post-transplant, if someone is still having chronic issues, it may have come to a point where this is going to be their life and it’s about supporting them through that realisation, helping them to adjust to their change in lifestyle and find a new normality with the support they need.. On the other hand, a month after a transplant, ordinarily the patient would still be in hospital, but we’re starting to see more recent recipients as outpatients – this could be because of advances in the supportive care they’re getting and the way we’re looking after them.. I’m an honest and tactful person so I try to prepare people from the beginning for the journey ahead and let them know how we can help them. It’s not just about supporting patients and families through difficult times, it’s also about educating and empowering them to look after themselves and getting their lives back on track. We have a late effects clinic, where patients attend for their annual checks and monitoring of their chronic GVH. Part of my role is to ensure all post transplant patients get revaccinated and are closely monitored for potential long-term side effects of treatment such as osteoporosis and early menopause.. In the afternoon, I go round visiting the inpatients. Most of these patients are people who have been admitted for their transplant, so they have no immediate problems, but it’s good to introduce myself early and get that rapport, so they know who I am after they’ve been discharged.. I also catch up with the inpatients who have already had their transplants and who have been re-admitted for complications. One of my patients is currently in with GVH disease in his gut, so he is struggling to eat or drink normally. Another is here because he has fatigue caused by the transplant and is struggling at home, so I’ve been working with social services to get him into a nursing home. He’s a prime example of why having this new post-transplant role is so vital; in future, I’ll be able to identify these kinds of issues earlier so we can get a plan in place for the patient before their transplant.. Another patient has relapsed and we are now organising hospice care to make sure the patient and their family have comfortable, dignified and high-quality palliative care in these last weeks.. Because I’m now in a dedicated post-transplant role, it means we can have a more holistic, personal approach to patients and the people around them. Before .  introduced the new post-transplant specialist role, the nurses on the ward would have had to do all of this, so of course there would be different nurses handling things according to what shift they were on.. I usually get home about 6.30pm when I get to have some time with my son, Tom, who is in year three at primary school, before he goes to bed. It can sound like a cliche but it really is a constant juggling act balancing family life and a busy career, but I’m so passionate about both. I trained hard to become a nurse and it’s who I am but it isn’t always easy.. It’s worth it though – the way I see it, we have a responsibility to be here for everyone throughout their journey. We’re keeping people alive which is incredible, but the effects of the treatment affect their quality of life and it’s not good enough just to save a life and say our job’s done. We’ve got a commitment to see our patients through to the end of the journey and help them live their lives.