You’ve been walking the straight and narrow—counting calories, working out—and yet you’re not dropping pounds. What gives? The answer may be hiding out amid the random things you do over the course of an average day—those little habits that have seemingly no connection to weight loss, but may in fact be sabotaging your best get-fit efforts.. A funny thing happens when you focus on making careful diet decisions. If you just "think" of your meal as a light choice, it can cause your brain to make more of the hormone ghrelin, reports a study from Yale University.. "More ghrelin makes you feel less full and signals your metabolism to slow down," says study author and PhD candidate Alia Crum. To keep your ghrelin balanced, focus on the more indulgent parts of your meal—say, the nuts and cheese on your salad, rather than the lettuce.. It also helps to pick foods that are both healthy and seem like a treat, like a warm bowl of soup with crusty whole-grain bread.. Carrying cash may feel a little last century, but people who use a credit card when grocery shopping buy significantly more unhealthy, calorie-dense food than people who pay cash, according to a study in the . .. Junk-food buyers were perfectly aware of the extra calories and cost of those treats, but since they didn’t feel the immediate hit in the wallet, they gave in more easily to impulse buys, explains study co-author Kalpesh Desai, PhD, associate professor of marketing at Binghamton University.. There’s a downside to that, says a French study: Simply thinking about exercise can cause you to eat 50% more. Why? People assume that the upcoming workout gives them license to snack. Avoid excessive munching with a pre-gym snack of no more than 150 calories, advises Keri Glassman, RD, author of . . Try two slices of turkey with whole-grain crackers.. A hectic schedule, challenging job, family drama—whatever the reason for your . , it may be the underlying cause of your weight loss struggles. That’s because of the stress hormone called cortisol, which may increase the amount of fat your body stores away.  In fact, research has shown that higher levels of cortisol have been linked to greater amounts of visceral fat.. Sure, cardio is important. But if you always opt for a run or bike ride, you likely won’t reach your weight loss goals. “If your primary goal is fat loss, there are other forms of exercise that give a much better bang for your buck,” says celebrity trainer Jennifer Cohen. “The best way to lose weight and.  by doing some form of.  in addition to your cardio. The more muscle tone your body has, the more fat you'll burn.”. But if you’re not ready to let go of your daily cardio routine just yet, try adding . , suggests Cohen, since these types of workouts are much more effective at targeting fat than cardio alone.