ews about the unsustainable pressures facing A&E departments has been hard to avoid. Visits to A&E in 2014 . . And .  show that up to 1m emergency admissions are avoidable and up to 50% of 999 calls could be managed at the scene.. The depth of this crisis is clear but it’s time to find alternative solutions. To reduce .  pressures we need to prevent people getting so ill. Part of this is about preventing hospital admissions and readmissions by making homes safer (to prevent falls) and warmer (to avoid cold-related illnesses worsening). It’s also about enabling quicker, safer hospital discharge for patients who are well enough to go home but can’t.. Recently Sir Stephen Bubb, chief executive of the Association of Chief Executives of Voluntary Organisations presented to a cabinet subcommittee on how charities could help reduce A&E pressures. But it isn’t just the big national charities that can help tackle the crisis in our health system.. Another resource are home improvement agencies (HIAs). There are nearly 200 of these organisations in England, many not-for-profit, some run by councils or housing associations, others independent. The HIA national body is Foundations and its charitable arm, which gives out grants, is the . . HIAs organise repairs and adaptations to make homes safer for vulnerable people, many of whom live on their own with carers visiting occasionally. Health commissioners are waking up to the contribution that low cost, modest home modifications – installing a grab rail, replacing front steps with a ramp or mending a thermostat – can make to NHS budgets. . The organisation I work for, Swan Housing Association, has been commissioned by North East Essex .  (CCG) to run a rapid response service to do just that. We realised that many older patients in A&E fell between two support pathways. They needed more than the one-off intervention provided by home-to-hospital projects. But they didn’t need an intensive 4-6 week care package offered by reablement schemes. As a result patients often had to be unnecessarily admitted and some had their discharge delayed because the right type of support wasn’t immediately available.. To plug this gap, Swan Care & Repair, in partnership with our own care provider . , created a new service. Handypersons were available seven days a week, 7am-11pm. Within four hours of a GP, community matron or paramedic phoning us, a patient was visited by a handyperson and senior care worker and provided with up to six days of support at home.. A social return on investment exercise showed that for the £114,000 invested in the pilot by the CCG and Swan Care & Repair, a net value of £943,600 in savings was generated to the whole economy.. The financial and practical success of the model meant that North East Essex CCG have commissioned services until September 2015. We’re also trialling the placement of care staff in hospital discharge teams and our care staff are helping to identify outpatients who would benefit from services at home rather than being admitted.. This is a prime example of how better integration between housing, social care and health can have a big impact on A&E departments. There are many community organisations out there that could help to address the hospital crisis. I hope they get the chance, and the commissioner backing, to make this a reality for more communities.