Newly qualified doctors will be offered “golden hellos” if they become a GP under a £10m .  plan to help overcome the growing shortage of family doctors.. The initiative is part of a new package of measures designed to boost the number of .  joining the profession, deter early retirement and encourage those who have taken a career break, for example to work abroad or have children, to rejoin the workforce.. The move has been prompted by concern among health service leaders, ministers and GP organisations that a lack of family doctors will worsen the growing problems GPs face dealing with more and more patients seeking an appointment.. Under the action plan, which is being led by NHS England, recently qualified medical graduates who agree to work for three years as a trainee GP in places with too few family doctors – mainly deprived areas – will receive unspecified “additional financial support”.. Young doctors who agree to work as GPs in such areas will also be offered an extra year’s training in a branch of medicine that interests them, such as child health, psychiatry or emergency medicine, or help with acquiring business skills.. Experienced GPs who are considering retiring early will also be offered incentives to continue working, including mentoring and help with qualifications, such an a MBA.. The £10m for the scheme is part of the extra £1bn ministers have made available to improve general practice from fines levied on banks for their part in the Libor scandal, although most of that money is to upgrade GP surgery buildings and equipment.. The need to persuade more doctors to become GPs has also prompted NHS England, Health Education England and the Royal College of GPs and the British Medical Association to collaborate on the first ever marketing campaign designed to sell the benefits of life as a GP to medical graduates. Modelled on the highly successful “. ” drive to increase teacher numbers, it will see all newly qualified doctors receive a letter setting out the positive aspects of life as a GP, such as a close connection with patients.. The .  to use as part of the campaign.. “This action plan is good news for general practice and good new for patients,” said Dr Maureen Baker, chair of the RCGP. “By tackling the three Rs – recruitment, retention and ‘returners’ – this action plan gives us a real chance to build up the size of our GP workforce that our nation needs.” It would relieve the “great stress” GPs have been under for the last decade, trying to meet growing demand from patients, Baker added.. It will also be made easier for GPs who have taken time off, for example to have children or to work abroad, to return to work by easing the bureaucracy involved. Introducing new “safe and proportionate standards” for such doctors’ clinical skills may ultimately lead to the abolition of the GP Performers List, which some GPs – including Baker – claim is too hard to get back onto in order to resume practising after a period away.. Labour claimed the initiative was needed because the coalition had caused problems in general practice. “Patients struggle for appointments as the number of GPs falls under David Cameron. Medical students are put off by the intolerable pressure ministers have placed on general practice. While twice as many GPs are emigrating and 60% are considering early retirement”, said Jamie Reed, the shadow health minister.. Despite recent efforts to boost GP numbers England still has 356 fewer GPs than during Labour’s last year in office, he said. An HEE report commissioned by the coalition conceded there was a “GP workforce crisis”, he added.. But Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary, said the changes were needed because, as more medical care is moved out of hospital into community settings and the NHS focuses on prevention rather than cure, patients will need better access to primary care services. “This ambitious plan helps set a clear direction for the future of general practice and I hope it will encourage even more young, aspiring medical students to take up careers as GPs.”