The Labour party has launched its pivotal election pledge on the . , promising 36,000 more staff and the repeal of privatisation laws.. It also promises to make progress in achieving a single whole-person care service, with a focus on care within the home rather than in hospital, and to end the culture of 15-minute visits by care workers by recruiting an extra 5,000 and changing the incentive structure.. Labour said the number of days that patients were left in hospital because they could not be discharged was at a record high; in the past year, more than 1 million bed days were lost, adding £278m to the NHS bill.. Given the current financial uncertainty, however, it is difficult to predict whether the country will be able to afford the suggested changes.. Here is a selection of views from the healthcare sector. To share your thoughts, tweet .  or write in the comments section below..  “Although Labour’s announcement today seems appealing, there needs to be more detail on how the proposals would be implemented and funded. What has been set out would aim to end a historic divide between the NHS and social care systems. However, there would be significant challenges: first in blending one system that is free at the point of use with another that is subject to means-testing; and second in yet another upheaval to administrative structures in the NHS, which distracts from the issue of real reform in care to patients, especially given the financial squeeze. ‘No more structural reorganisation’ should be the first element of any party’s policy on the NHS.”. “Andy Burnham has set out an ambitious and wide-ranging vision for the NHS and social care. It throws down the gauntlet to the other parties to set out their plans ahead of the general election. Burnham is right to put integrated care at the heart of this vision. This echoes the prescription for a single budget and single commissioner for health and social care set out by the . . His emphasis on mental health was also very welcome. While he was at pains to stress his plans would not result in another structural reorganisation, it is not clear how change on this scale could be achieved without some changes to commissioning structures in particular ... The elephant in the room is how this will be paid for. Labour has not yet committed to finding the additional £8bn [that was] identified in the .  as being needed to close the NHS funding gap by 2020 ... The challenge for the Labour party is to demonstrate how it will provide the funding to implement such a positive vision of the future.’.  “On integration, local leaders are already making progress on delivering better coordinated services for patients. Labour’s plan rightly looks at how best to support local leaders across health and social care working together. On new models of care, care must be transformed around the needs of people, patients and communities. The only people who can determine the right provision locally are local leaders of health and social care, in partnership with the public. To ensure patients have access to the highest possible quality of service, commissioners need the freedom to work with a whole range of providers of care, including the profit and not for profit sector.”.  “It is good to see that the Labour party have acknowledged the resource and workforce pressures facing general practice and their pledge of 8,000 more GPs by 2020 – something the RCGP has long called for – is very welcome. The GP workforce in England is currently straining under the increasing pressure of a growing and ageing population, with more and more patients presenting with multiple and long-term conditions. Family doctors and their teams currently make 372 million patient consultations every year – a rise of 58 million in the last five years – yet the share of the NHS budget that general practice receives has dropped to a record-low 8.3%. While more GPs are desperately needed, it is essential that this is backed up with the supplementary resources needed for us to be able to deliver excellent care to our patients when they need it.”.  “Social care has suffered for years from chronic under-funding, and we have reached the point today where many professionals fear they will no longer be able to help all those who desperately need their support. Many older and disabled people who need help to do everyday things like getting up in the morning, getting dressed, having a meal and getting out of the house have already been cut out of the care system altogether. This kind of support is vital: without it already-vulnerable people are at risk of isolation, loneliness and further health problems, with no choice but to seek help from their GP or local A&E department. We need a care system that ensures everyone who needs support gets it. Otherwise the pressures on an already stretched NHS will only get worse.” .  “The statement is largely silent on the two huge practical challenges: funding and integration of health and social care. On integration, the statement promises integrated health and social care ‘year of care’ budgets, the expected savings from which would be used to fund other reforms, such as an end to 15-minute home care visits. Yet without further reorganisation of two fundamentally different systems – the NHS, which is free at the point of use and paid for through national taxation, and social care, which is means-tested and provided by councils – it is difficult to see how any government could introduce such budgets.” .  “Andy Burnham is right when he says in the plans that ‘integrating health and care services cannot be imposed by top-down edict and timetables. It must be driven at a local level and designed around local needs’.”. “The commitment to implement the Five Year Forward View is a welcome recognition that one size does not fit all, and the approach .  has set out allows local health and care systems to work together to find the right local solutions.” .  “Labour’s plan presents a credible explanation of their understanding of the issues facing health and social care. It would be helpful to have the same from the other political parties at this stage in the electoral cycle. While more support outside hospital could improve people’s lives, Labour needs to be more careful about assuming they will deliver short-term savings. In many countries politicians are stepping back from detailed operational management of complex health services. But Labour’s proposals still feel somewhat top-down. It is not clear why politicians should be in charge of specifying the numbers of staff to be recruited, or when patients need to see their GPs. This is a concern because nationally driven performance management can be just as disruptive as structural reorganisation.”.  “Labour’s vision of citizen and service user involvement seems underdeveloped; new rights for patients and carers in the NHS constitution – while welcome – don’t answer the question of how to give the constitution teeth. It remains unclear whether Labour supports personal budgets in creating people-powered health. There is a tension between the policy of the NHS as preferred provider and a powerful role for local voluntary organisations, and it is not clear that Labour has fully risen to the funding challenges set out in the recent Five Year Forward View.”