Public satisfaction with the .  reached its second-highest level ever last year, despite A&E units and GP surgeries coming under unprecedented pressure and financial problems piling up.. Overall, just under two thirds (65%) of adults were very or quite satisfied with the way the NHS was run in 2013, even though it was criticised for growing numbers of patients facing long waits for treatment.. That is 5% more than the year before, and not far off the highest-ever level of satisfaction – 70% – seen in 2010.. At the same time, public dissatisfaction with the NHS also fell last year to its lowest-ever level – just 15%.. The findings are contained in British Social Attitudes survey data obtained from 1,937 adults UK-wide last year.. The number of respondents who had recently had personal experience of the NHS who declared themselves very or quite satisfied rose from 64% to 68%. But satisfaction among those who had not had any contact with the service, either personally or through friends or family, rose more sharply, from 54% to 65% – up 11%.. Satisfaction rose most sharply among Labour voters, up 11% to 69%, and among Liberal Democrat supporters, by 5% to 68%, but remained static among Conservative voters at 67%. Ukip supporters were the least satisfied on 57%.. The increase in satisfaction led John Appleby, chief economist at the King’s Fund, which published the data, to speculate that “as well as an actual increase in satisfaction, this may in part reflect a desire among the public to show support for the NHS as an institution” at a time when it is facing serious challenges.. However, satisfaction with GP services fell to 71% – its lowest-ever level – from 74% in 2013. That is well below the record 83% recorded in 1991 and 1993 and also the 80% seen as recently as 2009.. That could reflect patients’ annoyance at the growing number who could not get an appointment quickly enough, some of whom then went to A&E instead.. Despite well-publicised difficulties at emergency departments, including their increasing struggle to treat 95% of patients within the four-hour target, satisfaction with A&E services rose from 53% to 58%, while 69% were satisfied with outpatient services – the highest ever.. Public satisfaction with social care services was far lower than with NHS care. Just 31% of respondents said they were satisfied with it (up 2%), while those dissatisfied went up by 1% to 30%.. Dr Mark Porter, leader of the British Medical Association, said the findings showed that patients continued to value the NHS and health professionals working in it, especially as key services in some places “are close to breaking point”.. While GP satisfaction rates have fallen, they are still the highest for any part of the NHS, “but any government should be concerned that overall levels are slipping under their watch”, Porter added.. Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary, said: “These results are a tribute to hardworking NHS staff who are unstinting in their efforts to ensure patients receive a world-class service.”