Office-based staff in the healthcare sector endure high stress levels and are at risk of burnout, according to a new report.. Almost half of the UK’s office-based healthcare workforce (49%) say they are closer to exhaustion than they were just five years ago, according to the report by Regus, which surveyed more than 3,000 of the UK’s business people about their work environment.. The main causes of workplace stress in the healthcare sector are lack of exercise, feeling understaffed and job insecurity.. “Many factors impact on stress levels. Patients tend to expect that anyone who works in a hospital has medical training, and will frequently be disappointed, upset and/or angry when they can’t get medical advice from you down the phone,” said one man who works in a large London .  trust.. He added: “It feels like the offices tend to be somewhat forgotten about when it comes to funding, most of the systems feel rather antiquated and aren’t always entirely suited to the volume and importance of work being undertaken. Additionally, the volume and turnover of temporary staff in the NHS means there is always a large proportion of new and undertrained staff, which does little to aid the smooth running of an office.”. Jon Restell, chief executive of managers’ union . , said: “These survey results are no surprise to us. They confirm what our members have been telling us. They face growing pressure in their jobs, keeping our NHS going in the face of budget cuts and rising demand. They are subject to constant reorganisation and the threat of redundancy as the government demands cuts in so-called back-room services.. He added: “This is a false division – the back room is the engine that keeps the frontline going. But there is just so much pressure they can take and the NHS is in danger of losing these skilled and dedicated members of the healthcare team. It’s time NHS employers started practising what they preach and take care of their own staff’s health and wellbeing.”. Unison head of health, Christina McAnea, said: “Cuts to budgets and serious staff shortages across the NHS mean staff have to work more to ensure the continuity of the service.. “It is no surprise that workers are burning out and their stress levels are high. The unprecedented pressure on the NHS means an increasing number are taking time off sick while others are considering leaving the health service for less stressful jobs.”