Juicy, ripe and colorful, fresh tomatoes are one of the summer season's greatest pleasures. If you have more tomatoes on hand than you know what to do with this year, try one of these delicious and healthy recipes to transform them into something truly special. From fresh, veggie-packed salads to decadent pastas and pizzas to hearty side dishes like tomato-cheddar cornbread, there's something for everyone—and every time of day—on this list. Here, 29 of our all-time favorite tasty tomato recipes.. This carb-free "pasta" dish is low in calories but packed with good-for-you nutrients. Keep tomatoes on the counter, not in the fridge, for the best flavor and texture.. Extra-virgin olive oil, garlic, baby spinach, parsley leaves, capers, hempseed, lemons, salt, black pepper, zucchini, avocado oil, cherry tomatoes, Parmesan shavings (optional). 161. This fresh, protein-packed salad can be ready and on the table in just 30 minutes.. Avocado or coconut oil, shrimp, salt and black pepper, garlic, lemons, Dijon mustard, raw honey, extra-virgin olive oil, cherry tomatoes, English cucumber, parsley, tarragon, thyme, avocado, Bibb lettuce.  364. This might just be the ultimate healthy comfort food recipe. It tastes undeniably decadent, but whole-wheat flour and tomatoes give it a nutritional boost. Serve as a side dish or enjoy as an afternoon snack or at brunch.. Unsalted butter, cornmeal, whole-wheat flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt and black pepper, cayenne, eggs, buttermilk, honey, sharp Cheddar cheese, tomatoes. : 188. This slimmed-down grilled cheese sandwich still tastes every bit as good as the comfort food classic you know and love..  Cooking spray, rye bread, grainy mustard, reduced-fat Cheddar cheese, beefsteak tomato.  355. This one-skillet shakshuka dish is the perfect mixture of flavorful and hearty. The combination of warm spices like ginger, cumin, and curry powder along with filling eggs make this dish a healthy yet satisfying dinner. The best part? You'll only have to spend a few minute cleaning up, since everything is cooked in one pan..  Eggs, yellow onion, mild harissa, garlic, curry powder, honey, ground cumin, ginger, crushed tomatoes, scallions.  182. If you have fresh herbs handy, use them to garnish this pasta dish. Basil, oregano, or mint, or a combination, works nicely..  Extra-virgin olive oil, garlic, marinated tomatoes, crumbled feta, salt and pepper. 376. Add a super sauce: Give your basic grits a nutritional upgrade with a power ingredient: mushrooms.. Cauliflower florets, low-sodium chicken broth, fine yellow cornmeal, Cheddar cheese, grape tomatoes, unsalted butter, cremini mushrooms, kosher salt, black pepper, hot brewed coffee, cornstarch, scallions. 267. This chicken salad recipe may sound ordinary, but there's fresh produce and flavorful goat cheese in every bite..  Chicken breasts, salt, black pepper, cooking spray, arugula, cherry tomatoes, red onion, olive oil, vinegar salad dressing, kalamata olives, goat cheese.  305. Try roasted cherry tomatoes on pasta or pizza. For a lighter dish, strain out the extra oil (you can use it in salad dressing)..  Cherry or grape tomatoes, thyme, garlic, shallot, olive oil, salt, pepper.  160. Put down that jar of tomato sauce! This recipe takes your pasta to the next level with 8 simple ingredients. The fresh tomatoes and .  add great flavor, and there's no need to slave over the stove to make homemade sauce..  Tomatoes, short pasta noodles, olive oil, basil, oregano, garlic, grated Parmesan, salt, pepper.  365. Got leftover sliced tomatoes? Chop and toss into a salad, or blend, pour into a ziplock bag and freeze to use in a sauce later..  Tomatoes, grated Parmesan, oregano, garlic powder, olive oil, salt, pepper.  67. You can't go wrong with the classic combo of mozzarella and tomatoes. And this recipe takes the flavor up a notch by adding kalamata olives and basil. Yum!.  Tomatoes, mozzarella, kalamata olives, basil, olive oil, salt, pepper.  256. Cut this tart into smaller pieces (you may get up to 20) to serve at a party..  Plum tomatoes, phyllo dough, feta, thyme, rosemary, olive oil, salt, pepper.  99. You can substitute more traditional Tabasco sauce for sriracha in this Bloody Mary. Pulse in some horseradish for a stronger bite..  Tomatoes, cucumber, lemon, sriracha, Worchestershire sauce, vodka or gin, green olives, celery sticks, salt.  142. Tomatoes and artichoke hearts add a Mediterranean flair to this simple recipe. Their savory flavor complements the bitter arugula in this veggie-packed pizza that is under 300 calories..  Grape tomatoes, artichoke hearts, extra-virgin olive oil, naan flatbreads, fresh Parmesan cheese, arugula, lemons, salt, black pepper.  277. Serve this sweet and spicy salsa with chips, add it to your salad, or even eat it plain for a low-calorie snack..  Peach, tomato, mint, cilantro, sweet onion, lime, jalapeño, salt.  14. Lemon juice and lemon zest brighten this snapper and summer veggie dish. It makes a quick, wholesome dinner for two..  Extra-virgin olive oil, kosher salt, black pepper, snapper fillets, dry vermouth, zucchini, shallots, fresh oregano, lemon rind, cherry tomatoes, fresh basil, lemon juice.  303. This classic Italian combo uses fresh ingredients to create a light, fiber-rich summer pasta. Plus you'll get a spicy kick of red pepper despite the creamy sauce..  Whole-wheat pasta shells, butter, shallot, red pepper, baby spinach, low-sodium chicken broth, half-and-half, pecorino Romano cheese, black pepper, grape tomatoes, fresh parsley.  386. Have you tried Halloumi cheese? It's a European cheese often used in . . Switch up the typical mozzarella and tomato combination with this healthy snack..  Cherry or grape tomatoes, Halloumi cheese, garlic, oregano, red wine vinegar, lemon juice, Dijon mustard, salt, pepper.  258. You'll get several servings of veggies in this light summer appetizer. Plus tomatoes and bell peppers add a boost of vitamins A and C. And the balsamic vinegar gives this dish a tangy flavor..  Tomato juice, tomatoes, cucumber, yellow bell pepper, red bell pepper, red onion, balsamic vinegar, olive oil, garlic, salt, black pepper, fresh basil.  88. Though this recipe calls for canned tomatoes, fresh ones bring the same flavor, with less sodium. Mild tomatoes also make the perfect base for the contrasting savory and sweet spices in this mouthwatering chicken dish..  Vegetable oil, onion, garlic, cumin, cinnamon, salt, black pepper, tomatoes, green chiles, dark chocolate, tahini, cilantro, rotisserie chicken, avocado.  331. Need a light dinner? This grilled dish combines veggies with couscous to make a healthy, low-fat dish. For an extra burst of flavor, grill a lemon, too, and squeeze some of its juice over the veggies..  Red wine vinegar, honey, garlic, olive oil, salt, pepper, eggplant, yellow squash, zucchini, couscous, red onion, tomato, part-skim mozzarella cheese, fresh basil.  309. Soy sauce in salsa? You bet! This recipe combines offbeat ingredients to create a unique, savory flavor that's perfect atop . ..  Plum tomatoes, crushed tomatoes, green chiles, green onions, cilantro, oregano, vinegar, salt, pepper, sugar, lite soy sauce, limes.  38 per half-cup serving (approximate). Season your fish with a delicious blend of tomatoes, thyme, olive oil, and garlic. You'll get heart-healthy fats from the salmon and plenty of cholesterol-blasting lycopene..  Cherry tomatoes, thyme, olive oil, salt, black pepper, garlic, cooking spray, salmon, lemons.  265. These deliciously simple appetizers are supposed to be broiled. But if you're already throwing some meat on the grill, stick them on the grates first for a crispy texture..  Crusty bread, part-skim ricotta cheese, cherry tomatoes, extra-virgin olive oil, salt, black pepper.  115. Rosemary and shallots give the juicy tomatoes a subtle flavor. Add these tomatoes to burgers, sandwiches, or eat them hot off the grill..  Shallots, olive oil, rosemary, lemons, black pepper, salt, tomatoes, cooking spray.  44. Most quiche dishes will put a dent in your daily calorie count. However, this lightened version uses low-fat dairy products and tons of seasonal vegetables to create a filling breakfast for less than 250 calories..  Egg substitute, eggs, reduced-fat cheddar cheese, reduced-fat Monterey Jack cheese, low-fat milk, flour, baking powder, salt, fat-free cottage cheese, cooking spray, zucchini, potatoes, onions, green bell pepper, mushrooms, fresh parsley, tomatoes.  230. These tuna-stuffed tomatoes get their distinct and tasty flavor from capers and olives. The perfect appetizer, they're simple to make and provide 2 grams of fiber..  Tomatoes, tuna, kalamata olives, parsley, capers, olive oil, thyme, salt, pepper.  169. Panzanella, a Tuscan salad made with chunks of bread, is a traditional way to enjoy summer tomatoes. To make it even tastier, let panzanella stand for up to 60 minutes to allow flavors to develop..  Whole-wheat country bread, tomatoes, English cucumber, red bell pepper, red onion, Dijon mustard, red wine vinegar, basil, olive oil, garlic, salt, pepper.  255