he . is a confidential service for doctors and dentists with mental health or addiction problems. Since 2008 it has seen nearly 1,600 practitioner-patients. The number of referrals has increased from three to 17 per week in recent years, and the average age of those attending the service has fallen, with the peak age now only 29 years old.. Clinicians at PHP have heard about doctors who are bullied and those who do the bullying: those being complained about and the complainant: the junior doctor whistleblowing about lack of supervision and the senior, drowning in work, unable to find the time to teach. Unbeknown to each other, entire hospital departments pass through PHP, complaining about each other and the lack of support from their managers, clinicians or their directors.. Sadly, the experiences of these practitioners chime with those who have been speaking at a series of free listening events held over the last few months by the . , for NHS staff. Participants speak in confidence about their experiences of working in the NHS. Voice after voice, whether the young student nurse or senior manager, told of their intolerable working conditions, high work demand, disempowerment and the toxic effect it was having on their professional and personal lives. We heard of the frustration of unnecessary box-ticking, a target-heavy system created by a monitoring and regulatory process somewhat out of control.. Fear was the central emotion that emerged from the first listening event – fear of annihilation, loss of jobs, service and of humiliation and being named, shamed and blamed. Professor Don Berwick, who conducted a review of patient safety in the .  in 2013, wrote that fear “is toxic to both safety and improvement”.. The listening event findings resonate with reports on NHS staff health and wellbeing. According to the .  into the Mid Staffs scandal, nearly one in five .  and the same levels of psychological violence from other NHS staff. The figures equate to 300,000 NHS staff being bullied or hurt every year. A further 72% do not believe that anything would be done if they spoke up about their concerns. Of these, . . After teachers, .  (and the UK ranks highest of all for stress amongst the workforce in Europe), blamed alongside GPs and .  for the failing of a system that is largely outside their control.. To function well, organisations need a stable external frame to provide continuity and to allow the organisation to maintain its task, in the case of the NHS, providing care and compassion.. Repeated reorganisations have a corrosive effect, fracturing relationships and testing organisational and individual resilience to their limits, creating a sense of danger and anxiety and leading to scapegoating and destructive relationships, all too common features in the healthcare culture. Over the past 20 years, the NHS has existed in a permanent state of organisational change. Shifts in routines, customs, practices, and ways of working have all destabilised its complex ecosystem. The older generation of doctors, nurses, and managers are less able to support their younger colleagues – who are left to fend for themselves. Permanent transition risks losing the corporate memory and attachments that help find solutions for the future, drains energy and confidence from the workforce and reduces the influence of the health professionals’ ability to shape the services they work in.. Howard Schwartz, a management consultant, talked of organisations falling into two main groups –.  the latter personified by an organisation that is always falling apart and people’s main activity is to see that it doesn’t fall on them; nobody really knows what’s going on and anxiety and stress are constant companions. Management problems appear to be intractable, and managers feel they have done well by just getting through the day intact. The NHS is far from a clockwork organisation, and is more akin to the snakepit. A healthy environment, which nurtures and supports and really listens to staff is critical for safe and compassionate patient care. Organisational compassion where noticing, feeling and responding to pain is shared amongst its members should translate well into the NHS, after-all our core task is caring. Processes, for example, such as having early warning systems to alert for major adversity amongst staff, time for reflection, a no-blame culture and so on have been implemented outside health care.. Sadly, the NHS is far from a compassionate organisation. There is significant dissonance between the aspirations of the NHS – its values, missions and vision as laid out in the NHS constitution and the reality of and what we (staff) and patients experience. The . , listening events, and recent reports all highlight a blame culture and senior leaders who do not listen, or can not hear the cries of their own staff, as significant causes of what is wrong with their organisation.. The NHS is working hard to put patients first in all that it does, and rightly so – but it needs to be careful not to put staff last. For staff to deliver the key components of compassion (attentiveness, empathy and intelligent action) they must feel attended to. This is not just about implementing the 80 or so recommendations made in various reports over the past few years (though this would help), rather it is about embedding a deeper cultural change, led by politicians and involving all agencies in and around health care, such as the Care Quality Commission, NHS England and the General Medical Council. This makes sense for all concerned, as improved wellbeing of staff leads to better patient outcomes..  This article was amended on 6 February 2015 to properly acknowledge figures contained in the British Psychological Society’s response to the Francis inquiry into the Mid Staffs scandal, which was missing from an earlier version.