his week it was reported that . , with many staff leaving their jobs for something less stressful. This doesn’t surprise me. In this job, you get treated like a robot. Your health and wellbeing is completely disregarded.. I always wanted to be a paramedic, and the job has given me the skills to help people who are in need, and to save lives. No two days are the same. One moment you’re dealing with someone who has had a stroke, the next with someone with a broken limb. That part of the job is really satisfying. But since the 1980s, when I started, our call volume has risen drastically. Before, we used to do five or six jobs a day; now we are doing 11 or 12.. On our shifts, five hours without a break is the norm and we usually go six to seven hours. Basic things like going to the toilet are set aside, as emergency calls obviously take priority. The situation often feels unsafe, because we aren’t eating properly, our minds aren’t working properly, and we become dehydrated. We are so busy that I know crews who have been on the road for 12 hours without a break. Just as we clear the job and hand the patient over to the hospital, another one comes in. It’s becoming diabolical. The workload far exceeds the number of staff we have.. Our rosters are currently being reviewed, and resources reconsidered. The service is cutting back at certain times, like nights and weekends, is not increasing the number of vehicles we have, and is putting less qualified people on shifts to fill the gaps. While private companies are hired in under contracts to do our work, we are being cut back. This makes us feel extremely worried about the people we serve.. Because of .  cuts, the public are being put in very dangerous situations; sometimes we are stuck outside a hospital with a patient, for instance, because there are no beds available. We are running on the bare minimum all the time.. There are times I’ve considered leaving the profession, like so many others. But I love arriving on a call and knowing I can help someone; the confidence that patients have in you is indescribable. That sense of purpose is what makes me put my uniform on every day.. But I know many people who have left the profession because they are fed up of the way they’ve been treated. Statistics are hard to come by, but discussions with colleagues lead me to believe that the suicide rate among people who work in the emergency services is going up. This may be partly because people don’t have the chance to debrief after difficult calls, to discuss what exactly went wrong.. This is a job where you might see someone who has had a cardiac arrest, and the drugs you give them don’t work. There is nothing you can do; it’s that person’s time to pass away. You are then faced with the family of the deceased, and you try to console them. Then you finish that job, pack your equipment back into the van and move on to the next job, which could be, say, a woman in labour. So you go, in minutes, from tending to a loss of life, to responding to a birth. And you know full well that if you do something wrong it could affect that child for the rest of their life. There’s pressure on you from the previous job, and pressure in the current job, and because there aren’t enough of us, those pressures build up.. During a shift, if there’s time, you can sit down and talk with the person you are working alongside and discuss what happened on a call. This is known as a debrief. But if emergency calls are coming in thick and fast, you don’t have that option. You might discuss a difficult call-out when you finally get time at the end of the shift. But often there just isn’t time. There is a number you’re given, which you can call if necessary, but if it’s a bad job you don’t want to speak to a random person for moral support. After bad jobs, debriefs used to be the norm, but nowadays they don’t happen unless you specifically request them.. Another problem is our eight-minute target. When a 999 call is classified as life-threatening we have to get to the patient eight minutes after it is placed. We are told that we have to achieve this at least 65% of the time, but there is no clinical evidence to support this specific limit, and what is defined as an emergency varies across the country. This leads to the extraordinary situation in which our response to a call can be deemed a success, even if the patient dies; yet if we arrive in eight minutes and one second, and save a person’s life, this is marked down as a failure.. The clinical outcomes of what we do seem to be irrelevant; the focus is on targets, not saving lives. I’m not saying targets are bad. But what we need are clinically proven targets, rather than time-driven targets that have no clinical relevance.. Ill health has caused some of the people I know to give up – whether it’s problems with mental health and depression, or physical problems related to lifting elderly people who have fallen over. We are saving lives. How much are we worth?