s a respiratory physiotherapist within a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) team, no two days are the same, not least due to my varied shift patterns. My body clock wakes me up at 7am, even though some days I work from midday until 8pm.. My mind instantly starts shaping the day ahead, thinking about the patients planned for the day as well as any training I might be delivering.. I love being a respiratory physiotherapist; the respiratory field is where my passion truly lies. I studied physiotherapy at university with the intention of pursuing the sports side of the subject, but quickly found that I loved the lungs, so I instead moved into respiratory physiotherapy. Interaction with patients is what keeps my passion for the subject alive.. When I arrive at the office, I make myself a coffee and begin organising my morning visits. Visits to patients in the morning are unplanned, but they are on the caseload and often need to be seen due to an exacerbation of their condition. Patients with COPD suffer from breathing difficulties, due to long-term damage to the lungs. The condition is long term, and patients will often be on the caseload for seven to 10 days while they need support from the team.. My first patient has a serious exacerbation, is housebound and elderly, and lives on her own. I check her over by monitoring her oxygen levels, heart rate, breathing rate and blood pressure, while she talks to me about her noisy neighbours. My visits are not just about healthcare, I also offer company to many people who otherwise experience very little social interaction.. My morning flies by, and before I know it I am back at the office. After a short lunch break, I update patient records at my desk, and start accepting new patient referrals from GPs and community matrons. I also spend afternoons supporting my team, and monitoring our caseload as a whole to assess our pressure points.. Bristol has been identified as a COPD hotspot, largely due to its strong history of maritime and industrial trade, and the cigarette and tobacco industry, we see about 140 patients a month with the disease. The number of patients, however, can fluctuate dependent on the season. In winter we could be seeing 30 patients at any one time.. My afternoons are the most challenging part of my day. They are unpredictable due to the new patient referrals, but it keeps me on my toes. I also spend my afternoon checking on our telehealth patients. We use simple electronic monitoring devices in which patients answer daily questions about their breathing, and the system will let us know if there is anything to be concerned about. This empowers our patients to take control of their own condition and understand when they need support from us. One patient has some abnormal readings, so I give him a call and offer advice over the phone, which prevents him from going into A&E.. Alongside seeing my patients, I also spend time training my colleagues, community matrons, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, as well as GPs and practice nurses. I teach about breathing tests (spirometry), how to assess a COPD patient, how to treat them and medication management. Supporting healthcare staff to understand COPD can help to reduce hospital admissions and keep patients in their own home. Admission avoidance is a large part of what we do. Supporting those with long-term conditions in their own home helps to ease the pressure on emergency departments, which is especially important in the winter months.. The frontline clinical side of my role is still the most inspiring part of my job; I find it really important to stay in touch with my patients as it is why I enjoy my job so much. I find working within the respiratory field rewarding as we are able to improve our patients’ quality of life, and we can see a difference with patients on our caseload.. In my own time, I enjoy unwinding with a good book or spending time with family and friends. I try to take the time to relax in the evening to make sure I am ready for whatever the next day will bring.