Comedian Howie Mandel has been open about his mental illness, but what many don't know is how he uses exercise to calm his mind and control compulsive thoughts.. I wasn't an active kid. My mind was, but my body? Not too much. I had a great imagination, but I was preoccupied with compulsive thoughts, and ADD, and I acted out. I was never really athletic. In high school I was trying to get the interest of girls, but I couldn't get on any teams. I was 4 foot 10 and maybe 90 pounds, and I figured sports would be an in-road into meeting women. The only team I could get on was the wrestling team, but I didn't think of the ramifications when I joined. For a guy who doesn't like to shake hands, I was rolling around on a mat with strange guys. It wasn't fun, and I didn't meet any girls.. I started running in the last 10 years. I run seven days a week, six to 10 miles each time. I began doing it for my head more than anything. I just enjoyed the meditative state it puts me in: focusing on my footsteps and my breath. It is a comfortable place for me to have solace. I prefer outside versus inside. I like hills and trees, but it's not really to explore; it's to escape. I don't focus outwardly that much. I focus more inwardly. I realized that mentally I would feel real calm when I was doing it, and I would spend such a small part of my day feeling calm. That's what running does for me.. I was running in Central Park in New York City and it was raining and I slipped in a puddle and fell. I was totally covered in mud, my knees were bleeding and my hands were scraped, but other than that, no injuries.. I did a sit-up about 2½ months ago. I'm a runner, and that's it. I don't like public gyms. I don't want to touch anything. If I lift things, it's to move them out of the way. If I use a public treadmill, I have my own way of controlling it where I won't touch it with my hands. If you see me on a public treadmill, it's like a scene from Cirque du Soleil. I can do so many things without using my hands.. I was diagnosed with atrial fibrillation five years ago. A doctor stuck his stethoscope to my chest and said, "Uh, oh," which is never good. He said, "You're in A-fib," and I had no idea what that was. I didn't know anything was wrong with me. I figured a guy who was running six to 10 miles a day wouldn't have anything to worry about. I learned that I was five times more likely to have a stroke than someone without A-fib. The scary part is that people don't know about this, so we came up with our website FibsOrFacts.com because a lot of people have this and don't know, and this helps them learn and understand. There are remedies to monitor and take care of it. I feel better now than I ever have in my life.