e in the UK are justifiably proud of our NHS, with about 70% of us regarding our health service as . .. But sometimes our obsession with how to improve it can appear somewhat myopic, with an over-focus on internal change that can blind us to other approaches from around the world that are already achieving better outcomes for patients. This was brought home to me on a recent visit to Shanghai, which deals with more than 3 million episodes of care a year.. While we in the west still regard China as playing catch-up, Shanghai is a glittering model of modernity – indeed, it’s almost a glimpse into the future. Think air-conditioned underground, skyscrapers and a savvy, smartphone-addicted population.. The health service of this hectic, booming megacity of 24 million people has had to keep up. So on my trip to the Shanghai People’s Number One Hospital, I got a taste of how a service that operates without an effective primary care system manages to deal with so many patients.. To cope, the hospital is run as a production line for health. Rows of endoscopy suites cater for patients and productivity per suite is twice that of UK hospitals. Consultants are expected to see all the people who turn up on the day – most without a pre-booked appointment – and soon they can be ushered into a nearby operating theatre, very often with family members sitting in a huge waiting room just outside the theatre doors.. Now I’m not saying the UK could or should adopt the Shanghai approach to patient demand. But this method certainly helps them to deal with their particular circumstances, with a very high patient-to-clinician ratio.. China surprised me in other ways, too. For example, they already have national electronic patient records for the whole country to cope with mind-boggling patient numbers – something the UK is still grappling with despite numerous costly initiatives over the years.. And China isn’t the only country that’s blazing a trail for others. We might also want to take a leaf out of the Danes’ book for their approach to implementing standards for healthcare technology and hospital reconfiguration; the Australian funding approach, which ensures universal access to care and regulates the private insurance sector to prevent older citizens or those with pre-existing conditions being discriminated against; or the Norwegian approach to healthcare data sharing and clinical registries.  . The point here is that there’s a whole world out there to learn from. We look outside the UK for new technology such as robotic surgery or pharmaceuticals; we read journals and papers in our area of specialisation from across the globe. However, it’s very rare for the non-clinical leaders in our hospitals – finance directors, chief executives and so forth – to sit down and consider the big clinical and policy issues on a national basis, let alone an international one. And rarely do we get clinicians and hospital management in the same room debating and exchanging views. . At Dr Foster, we’ve set up a network of executives and clinicians from progressive hospitals around the world called . , which delves into healthcare data to examine differences in outcomes internationally, to spot where this can be attributed to clinical practice or policy.. It’s generating a string of international collaborative research programmes, which are providing new insight into how different systems are performing relative to each other. So for example, at our recent conference in London we heard from Prem Chana from the .  at Imperial College London. His study on emergency laparotomy – a high-risk surgical procedure that involves making an incision to provide access to the abdominal cavity – showed big variations in 30-day mortality rates between England, the US and Australia.. England’s rate was the worst, and this is thought to be due to the fact that healthcare systems in the US and Australia provide more robust and efficient pathways of care for emergency patients.. Meanwhile, on stroke care, .  told us how England, which had among the highest mortality rate in 2005, saw a dramatic reduction in stroke deaths over the following five years – an improvement not seen in other countries.. So as we fixate on the future direction of the .  and how we can get the best results for patients with the most efficient use of resources, we would do well to lift our eyes occasionally. There may not be one “perfect” health system, but its component parts are out there today in hospitals around the world. We just need to find them.. If we examine what’s out there already, we might save ourselves from reinventing the wheel.