15 years ago, my colleagues and I held a party in Catford to celebrate the launch of the first time bank in a UK health centre.. The idea was to make mutual support possible among patients, their families and their neighbours, and I wanted to see if it would work in the UK. I was working for the .  at the time, and we teamed up with one of the Rushey Green doctors, Richard Byng.. He was worried about how little he was able to do for patients for whom pills were not really an adequate, sustainable solution; those who were isolated, with long-term depression and a range of other conditions where social issues were as important as pharmaceutical ones.. The doctors refer patients they think would benefit, and members stay in touch via coordinators and other members, offering or requesting help.. It works a bit like a babysitting circle. When you help someone out, often with something very simple – lifts, gardening, phone support – you earn time, and when you need help yourself, you spend time. If you need companionship, or a lift to the shops or the surgery, or even someone to phone you, the time bank can sort it out.. It worked. A decade and a half on, the .  is still going strong, and still making a difference to people’s lives – and in the opposite way to most charitable endeavour.. Yes, members provide people with what they need – but they do something much more unusual: they make people feel needed too, often people who have always received and come to believe those around them didn’t need them. Feeling useful is a basic human need, and time banks provide the infrastructure that allows people to do so.. It goes a lot broader than health – visiting, befriending, changing lightbulbs, checking people are OK when they’ve been discharged from hospital, and so on. The menu is limited only by what the other members can do.. The Rushey Green evaluations were unanimous that it was making a difference to people – not just broadening their social networks but helping people with their symptoms, especially those with both physical and mental issues combined. So it was odd that so few health centres have copied it (though some have, .  for example).. At the launch of . project last year, a senior doctor explained that – when it comes to radical innovation like this – evidence isn’t enough. You have to overcome the real inertia of the system.. , the time banking support group, ran a project with the Department of Health to encourage links between GPs and time banks – to make the involvement of patients in the delivery of services a reality. The experience was the same – the nurses got stuck in and it made a difference. The doctors tended to get a bit stuck.. It may not be their fault. And it is true that evidence isn’t enough, but there is now a great deal of evidence, anecdotal and otherwise, about how best to involve patients in this way and what it makes possible – from the pioneering work of the huge Voluntary Nursing Service of New York (VNSNY) to the time banks of Colchester, Westminster and Cheshire, which were among those in the frontline of the UK project.. VNSNY recently handed its time bank, with 3,000 members across New York City, over to a big Catholic charity. With the help of its members, it means that care can go a lot further and a lot deeper than the familiar rushed visit.. The time certainly seems to have arrived when the .  as we know it, personal and human-scale, is going to have a tough time if it continues to ignore the resources its patients represent.. So how can we mainstream a radical but effective idea? My book (co-written with Sarah Bird) about time banks and health, . , suggests that we need time banks to be part of a multi-agency preventive infrastructure at local level.. We suggest that every public sector provider or contractor should be asked how they plan to help rebuild social networks – and how they plan to encourage mutual support among users.. How they answer the question is up to them – this is designed to encourage innovation, after all – but one way would be to embed a time bank in the service, use time credits in some other way, or contract with a time banking organisation nearby.. It has turned out to be difficult for this kind of supportive, mutual infrastructure to be funded as a standalone service, however much money it saves mainstream services. We need to put the responsibility firmly on services, and public service contractors, to explain how they will fund the time banks that can transform their services, and to fulfil their obligations to encourage mutual support.