An inquiry by leading doctors has rejected the controversial claims that death rates in .  hospitals are far higher than those in the United States.. A report by the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges has dismissed high-profile claims, . , that 45% more patients die in England because of weaknesses in NHS care, including poorer out-of-hours GP services, long waiting lists and bed shortages. . The inquiry was commissioned by Prof Bruce Keogh, NHS England’s medical director, after Jarman said hospital standardised mortality ratio (HMSR) data comparing death rates in both countries had produced that conclusion and left him “quite frankly shocked”. . HMSR measures whether the mortality rate at a hospital is higher or lower than would be expected, but many experts believe that while it can be a warning sign that care is inadequate, it is not necessarily a definitive indicator of failings in the quality of care.. His findings, which received extensive publicity, came soon after .  because of failings in the care they provided and months after Robert Francis QC’s landmark report into the . . It followed Jarman’s claim that as many as 13,000 patients may have died needlessly at 14 trusts in England since 2005, including the 11 placed in special measures. . But the academy report decided that HMSR was an “unreliable” and flawed way of comparing the quality of hospital care in England and the US, and no conclusions, such as those that Jarman drew, could safely be reached from using it. . “HSMR has a role [in assessing how well hospitals treat patients] but is too crude a marker alone for quality of care to have primacy,” said Dr Aseem Malhotra, a cardiologist in London and co-author of the report. “Just because a hospital has a higher than normal mortality rate doesn’t necessarily mean the quality of care being provided is poor – and vice versa.”.. The inquiry pinpointed four reasons why HMSR does not give an accurate picture of death rates in England relative to those in the US. . Firstly, patients are less likely to be classified as high-risk on their arrival in hospital in England. In the US, patients are more likely to be put into that category because hospitals receive more money from health insurers for the more seriously ill. . NHS doctors also record far fewer secondary diagnoses, or underlying conditions, in an admitted high-risk patient. NHS patients are given an average of two such diagnoses, in contrast to the US, where one in three such patients have 10 or more “co-morbidities”, or other medical issues, detailed in their notes – again because of financial incentives. “This can skew the HMSR data, making the results appear worse in England,” the academy noted.. Thirdly, patients tend to be in a worse condition upon admission to hospital in England. And lastly, a greater proportion of patients die in hospital in England (56%) than in the US (45%), mainly because of a lack of domiciliary care, places in hospices and other out-of-hospital facilities, the authors say. While in the US 30% of patients in acute hospitals are transferred elsewhere, in England the equivalent figure is just 5%. . Keogh welcomed the “important” report. “The NHS must never be complacent about safety and must do everything it can to prevent avoidable mortality,” he said. “However, this report further illustrates the point I made at the conclusion of my review into 14 hospital trusts with higher than expected mortality rates: that these statistical constructs should be used cautiously.”. Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary, said on Sunday that .  independent of the hospitals concerned as part of his ongoing efforts to “root out poor care”. It will involve a study of the case notes of about 2,000 patients who had died at England’s 160 trusts, undertaken by doctors not linked to the hospitals themselves.. Hunt will promise fresh action on Wednesday to support NHS whistleblowers who reveal poor care and patient safety failings in response to a new report on that issue by Francis. . The Department of .  conceded that HMSR may be part of the methodology it and NHS England decide to use to help them put all 160 trusts into one of three categories they are devising to show high, medium or low death rates.. Jarman said that he agreed that there were fewer secondary diagnoses in NHS patients but that would make no difference to his findings. . Similarly, Jarman added: “Although I agreed [with the academy] that a higher proportion of patients die in hospital in England (56%) than in the US (45%), my data showed the difference (11% lower in the US) might account for a maximum of 4.8% of difference of HSMR.”