Trying to provide a channel for patients to engage with their local healthcare providers is not new.. Indeed, it has been going on for decades. In 1974, Community .  Councils (CHC) were set up.. In 2003, they were abruptly replaced in England (but not Wales) by Patient and Public Involvement Forums (PPIF), reporting to the . . In 2005, these were replaced by Local Involvement Networks (LINks), which were funded by local government, and were aggressively local, with no central controller. Now, there is yet another change, the fourth in eight years, towards . , the community watchdog which really is going to realise the patient-centric dreams of Andrew Lansley, Jeremy Hunt, and me.. I am not sure. All the previous iterations worked only in places where the local CHC or LINk were uncharacteristically well-run, knowledgeable, and, above all, stroppy. The rest failed, and the patient's voice was ignored, ending up in Mid Staffs-type disasters. At a recent Westminster Health Forum about Healthwatch, Sir Steven Bubb, who runs the . , admitted that when he sat on a CHC, he was patronised by doctors. That is the big problem. Will doctors and hospital CEOs ever take patient groups seriously?. In the case of . , they certainly didn't. Robert Francis's description of the way the CHC, the PPIF and the LINk were unable to recognise what was really going on in that hospital, or act effectively to stop it concluded that "the arrangements for public and patient involvement, and for local government scrutiny in Stafford, were a conspicuous failure". His detailed analysis of the mistakes made by the succession of patient involvement bodies, from the CHC to the LINk, contained in his chapter 6, Patient and Public local involvement and scrutiny, pages 481-587, make essential reading for any new local Healthwatch body now being set up, on how not to run a patient-engagement group. One of Robert Francis's lessons was the kind of people recruited to the CHS, PPIF or LINk groups.. They were "enthusiastic but uninformed and untrained volunteers and recruiting from a small, unrepresentative pool of the 'usual suspects'". The usual suspects were terribly nice people who had probably been patients or relatives of patients in the hospital. But they had no idea about how to call to account a suave consultant or dominating chief executive. And, they had an in-built feeling that everything in the .  is wonderful.. The PPIF at Mid Staffs was made up of about eight middle-aged women such as this and two admirably stroppy men, who realised that things were seriously wrong. They said so, and were accused of being confrontational and unconstructive. When the PPIF morphed into a LINk in 2008, one of the stroppies invited Julie Bailey and members of . , the pressure group set up by bereaved relatives of patients who had died, to attend a meeting. She told Francis that she and the other CURE members "were not made to feel welcome and were in fact asked to explain who they were and why they were there". She discovered that most of the LINk members were not aware that the Healthcare commission was already six months into the first investigation of the trust. She found the LINk committee "dysfunctional" and left the meeting.. Julie Bailey is an example of how to get things done in the NHS: be passionate, never take no for an answer, gather people round you, and have an eye for publicity, local and national. With no government funding, she and CURE have become household names, which is more than LINk ever was. Gaining a high profile is essential for any patient representative group, to stop doctors patronising them.. I attended the launch of Healthwatch Sutton last week, and was encouraged to see that it has its eye on making itself known. More than fifty people turned up. A councillor was there and the head of the local care commissioning group, who, in the NHS new order, should be the guy who calls the shots and listens to what Healthwatch says. The local MP, Paul Burstow, was also there. He has done a stint as care services minister, and made it clear that he knows a lot about healthcare. The local hospital was represented by its head of patient experience. Healthwatch should not have too cosy a relationship with local providers. That would be a recipe for another Mid Staffs disaster.. Another thing I liked was that the audience was asked to write down how they thought healthcare could improve in Sutton. It looks as if Sutton wants to be proactive, not just react to what local healthcare providers want it to do.. Not all emerging local Healthwatches have got their act together as effectively. One Healthwatch near me, hosted by a private healthcare company, has so far failed to find a director, let alone recruit volunteers to do the chores. It looks to me as if Healthwatch is going to be as patchy across the country as the LINks were. If that happens, it will be another blow to the lofty cause of patient power..  This article was amended on 13 June 2013. An earlier version said that no one from from the local hospital attended the launch of Healthwatch Sutton. In fact the head of patient experience for St Helier hospital was there.