I am a locum tenens: a place-holder. I get calls and emails – scores every day – telling me that places are vacant in local emergency departments. And so, when I choose, I climb into the skin of an emergency medicine middle grade. That is, for a few days a month, I work in A&E. This skin isn’t my skin. I wear it because I get paid – well – to do so.. The .  concentrates on the expense of locum consultants. In fact, .  and those, like me, of mid-level experience. I am not an emergency medicine trainee, and have never had formal A&E training: I’m training in .  (maxfacs).. Maxfacs is a super-specialised, highly-skilled specialty, requiring both medical and dental degrees. For me, that makes 10 years at university as an undergraduate. I’m in my 10th year now, with finals on the horizon. I love my specialty. If I never needed to earn another day’s pay, I would still do it. But since I don’t have that particular privilege, I must sell my labour by stepping into the skin of an A&E doctor.. There are other doctors in similar situations, too. .  don’t just become locums to stick a ruby-encrusted middle finger up at the NHS. Many take breaks from the training conveyor belt to contribute to healthcare in less direct ways, such as by undertaking research or taking postgraduate qualifications. Some doctors may not have got a post in their chosen specialty this year, so they locum to pay the bills until the next round of applications.. My relationship with locum work in A&E is not purely transactional. I work in several different departments nearby, but my face is familiar – and, I like to think, welcome – at all of them.. I am paid well, and so I feel bound to give good value. I don’t turn up late, I don’t take hour-long coffee breaks, I don’t cherry-pick by only taking the notes for patients I know I can manage with a minimum of mental exertion. These are the things many A&E departments expect their locums to do.. Tales abound of doctors who come and go, take the cash, and do as little work as they can get away with. I have never met a doctor who embodies this paragon of medical vice, but such a pervasive myth cannot be entirely without basis. This must be soul-destroying for beleaguered permanent members of staff who find that, instead of easing their burden, their temporary colleague is an additional weight on their shoulders.. Being a locum is often great for the doctor, though hiring a locum may not always be so good for the department. My not being an A&E trainee is not a major problem: during the course of my surgical training, I have had enough experience to be safe in almost all situations in A&E. Ideally though, for efficiency and safety, the department would hire enough trained doctors to be . . Trouble is, there aren’t anywhere near enough of those at the moment.. Why aren’t there enough A&E trainees? I know many people who love A&E as much as I love maxfacs. I’ve heard it described as “the 15 most interesting minutes of all the other specialties”. There is a satisfying immediacy in the saving of lives, the patching up of the bumped and bruised, even in the abusive, drunken chaos of a Saturday night waiting room. I enjoy working in A&E, but I’m not committed to it. I turn up at a department at a time convenient for me, work only for my allotted time and, a week later, am paid. Those who choose it as a career don’t get those luxuries. Training in emergency medicine seems to be getting harder and harder. For every public recognition of the . , there are stories of . , .  and . .. Of course, these problems aren’t limited to A&E. Health is not just the absence of disease, but a . , and so healthcare extends far beyond the boundaries of the emergency department. A&E, hospital specialties, GPs, nursing, social work, employment, sport, housing, food, poverty are bound together by complex professional, political and financial relationships. I know GPs are feeling similar, if not . , and are urging the wielders of power to acknowledge . .. And so it goes, ever more . , and in the fertile space opened up by their departure, the demand for locum doctors blossoms. Those seeking to sacrifice the NHS at the altar of the free market, take heed. If you need A&E, no amount of choice will save you. We can see here that the invisible hand is bound, can greedy doctors really be blamed for the spiralling costs?. I am a locum tenens: a place-holder. I have walked around in the skin of an emergency medicine doctor for four years, and I have no difficulty understanding why so many spend their free time poring over the price of flights to Australia. Why shouldn’t a doctor, cowed and exhausted by a system seemingly designed to undermine and disempower, consider selling their labour to the highest bidder?