It's Gluten-Free Wednesday. Even if you have no intention of giving up gluten entirely, lighten it up a little with one of these three tempting salmon recipes. Each can be ready, from start to finish, in an hour or less..  Hash is a great option when you want something simple -- it's one-pan comfort food. In this take, combine cold-smoked salmon with butter-crisped Yukon gold potatoes, red onion, capers, fresh herbs and hints of horseradish and mustard, and serve alongside tangy creme fraiche..  If you're looking for easy, dinner doesn't get much better than oven-steamed salmon, according to Food editor Parsons. With his recipe, you simply steam salmon on a baking sheet in a 250-degree oven over a baking pan filled with boiling water. The salmon is ready in about 20 minutes, when the fish just begins to flake. While it's cooking, whisk together a quick dill mayonnaise (mayonnaise, Dijon mustard, fresh chopped dill and shallots and a little lemon juice), and you're good to go. Simple, right?.  Roasted red peppers are a perfect smoky base for this rustic sauce, brightened with a little lemon and dotted with fresh chopped chives. But it's the toasted hazelnuts that take this pesto to another level. Enticingly fragrant, they lend a wonderfully rich depth to the finished sauce. We loved this pesto served over roasted salmon, though it would pair equally well with other fish, poultry or roasted vegetables. You can find the recipe below.. Total time: 1 hour | Serves 4. Note: Adapted from Thyme Cafe & Market.. 3 red bell peppers, roasted, peeled and seeded (about 2 cups). 2/3 cup toasted hazelnuts, chopped. 1 clove garlic, chopped, more to taste. Zest and juice of 1 lemon, or to taste. 1 teaspoon apple cider vinegar. 1/4 teaspoon salt, more to taste. Freshly ground black pepper. 1/2 cup olive oil, more or less to taste, plus more for drizzling over the salmon. 1/4 to 1/3 cup chopped chives. 4 (6-ounce) salmon fillets. 1. In a blender, combine the bell peppers, hazelnuts, garlic, lemon zest and juice, cider vinegar, one-fourth teaspoon salt and several grinds of black pepper. Pulse to combine. With the blender running, drizzle in the olive oil to emulsify and form the pesto. Taste, adjusting seasoning and flavoring as desired, and adjusting the thickness of the pesto with additional olive oil. This makes a generous 2 cups pesto, more than is needed for the remainder of the recipe; any leftover pesto can be covered and refrigerated for up to 3 days.. 2. Remove the pesto to a bowl and stir in the chopped chives.. 3. Heat the oven to 425 degrees.. 4. Place the salmon fillets on a parchment-paper-lined baking sheet and drizzle the top of each fillet with a little oil. Sprinkle a pinch of salt and a few grinds of pepper over each fillet.. 5. Place the fillets in the oven and roast until the salmon is cooked through, 15 to 20 minutes.. 6. Plate the salmon and drizzle a little pesto over each fillet. Serve immediately.. Each of 4 servings: 560 calories; 37 grams protein; 6 grams carbohydrates; 2 grams fiber; 43 grams fat; 8 grams saturated fat; 94 mg cholesterol; 3 grams sugar; 321 mg sodium.