 “This report holds a mirror up to the NHS leadership – we need to look very carefully at what it shows. The poor treatment of some whistleblowers is a stain on the . . It undermines the great efforts of staff and the exceptional leaders we have in most of the service.”. “While there is always room for improvement we need to recognise that the NHS is one of the safest healthcare systems in the world, its patients are very happy with the quality of care they receive and NHS staff are strongly focused on spotting and reporting poor care should it occur. Whistleblowing needs to be seen in its proper context – these cases are exceptional and we must all work together to make sure that they remain so.”. “As a public service there is a requirement for a balanced view, as Jeremy Hunt and Sir Robert Francis have said… the need for transparency and openness. Clinicians need to be open about the care they are giving, whistleblowing occurs when openness has broken down in an organisation. . “While watchdogs can help they are always going to be external and the key arena for whistleblowing is internal, dependent upon an organisational commitment and employee confidence. Openness has already broken down and this is the key challenge.”.  “The RCP welcomes this report, which will hopefully lead to a change in the way doctors and other healthcare professionals can raise concerns about patient care in their organisations. Doctors must have a safe haven in which to be able to voice concerns and must also be given the time to support investigation and resolution of those concerns.”.  “It’s time to take stock of the current policies in the NHS to help monitor, assure and improve quality and safety. There is a bewildering array of them and we need to understand which ones to prioritise and where there are gaps.. “It will be essential to monitor the progress of the policies outlined today, in particular any unintended consequences. For example, it will be important to understand if policies such as the new duty of candour and offence around supplying false or misleading information will achieve the desired change in culture.”.  “It takes great courage for health professionals to raise concerns about care and so they must be reassured that when they do come forward that they will not suffer as a result. No one should be punished for acting in the public’s best interest.. “We strongly welcome the publication of the Freedom to Speak Up Review and the advice on how organisations and individuals can work together to create a more open and honest reporting culture across the NHS. In particular, we believe that the local ‘freedom to speak up guardians’ who Sir Robert has recommended should be appointed within every NHS trust could make a key difference to staff being able to raise concerns, as could an Independent National Guardian within CQC, who could support this network of individuals and encourage best practice on handling whistleblowing disclosures.”