“Do you think I should do medicine?” asked my bright-eyed teenage cousin, poised on the edge of one of the biggest decisions of his life so far. As current holder of the esteemed title of “the first doctor in the family”, he came to me for advice.. I told him I needed to think about it.. That week I went about my daily fire-fighting routine with the bleary eyed commute, the inevitable bleating monologues to friends explaining why I couldn’t make their lunch/wedding/birthday, and the familiar feeling of lying in bed at the end of a 12 hour day churning over the patients I’d seen, and I wondered: “what would I say to my 17-year-old self?”. I’ve felt undeserving of the proud superlatives from my relatives. It’s not quite been the picture I warbled about in my medical school interview. There have, however, in my (admittedly short-lived) career so far, been plenty of moments where I’ve felt glad that I chose to be a doctor.. But I realised that if I was being honest, my answer would depend on something he probably didn’t expect: how much he imagined spending time with his family in the future.. There was a point as a medical student when I realised that the GP path was going to be inevitable for me. I remember my own GP at the time declaring: “If you want to have a family and a life, this is the only way to go”, as she left to pick up her children from school.. Those words echoed in my ears as I plugged away at my foundation jobs, trying not to pay too much attention to how much I enjoyed being the A&E doctor or the acute general medic on call.. I know I don’t have to dig deep to find .  and I don’t for a moment think I’m in for an easy ride. But, I’m yet to be convinced that any other path will give me quite the same flexibility in terms of managing a family life alongside my career. There are plenty of options to go part-time in hospital specialties and I admire those around me doing just that. Equally, many of my colleagues echo my view that the seemingly endless training treadmill that results from this is unappealing. It doesn’t absolve you from working unsociable hours either, and in some specialties I still get the feeling that”the part timers” aren’t held in quite the same regard.. A year into their chosen specialties, and I’ve noticed a gradual shift in the mood of my female friends. Their initial enthusiasm now seems laced with doubt: how will they juggle their careers with the other jigsaw pieces of their lives, that are coming together to paint a picture that seems incompatible with the demands of their specialty?. Should our 17-year-old selves have known what we were letting ourselves in for? Do we just want to have our cake and eat it too?. There is a distinct lack of women at the top, as highlighted recently by the King’s Fund: . . This varies widely among specialties, with just . . The .  has been highlighted before.. I felt a glimmer of hope recently, after seeing some interesting examples of specialists working in ways that transcend the boundaries of primary and secondary care. I think these new models of care could define innovative roles in the future, especially for those who want to find a way to combine a speciality career with the flexibility of primary care (beyond being a GPSI: GP with a special interest).. For example, the Imperial Healthcare Child Health GP Hub was recently featured in a . . The hubs comprise groups of GP practices working with hospital paediatricians, and GPs can refer patients to an outreach clinic. A consultant and a hub GP sit side by side and lead this clinic every four to six weeks in the GP surgery itself. I’ve heard several of my female paediatric colleagues wishing that this could be a permanent post with its own training programme.. Another example is the . . Elderly, frail patients can be referred to the EMU, which is seen as an alternative to an acute hospital A&E, by their GP or paramedic. It operates seven days a week with limited weekend hours, with some basic diagnostic facilities and a full multidisciplinary team. I spent some time here as a foundation doctor, and could definitely see the appeal of a career path that led to a permanent role here as an acute medic.. The potential is there, but .  working patterns just don’t seem to have caught up with the changing demographic of the modern workforce yet, with women expected to make up the majority over the next 10 years.. My cousin listened to my rambling, and went ahead to apply for medicine anyway. I’m sure it’s hard for him to imagine what his priorities will be like in 10 years time, just as it was for me.. I only hope he has some more options when he gets there.