he drive to integrate public services for health and social care, transport and housing must surely be the holy grail of policymaking. Could health and wellbeing boards (HWBs) be the key to bridging the gap and making integrated services a reality?. The introduction of HWBs in 2012 was initially greeted with positivity and cross-party support. Tasked with assessing the needs of their local population, the boards also set out health and wellbeing strategies that clinical commissioning groups, local authorities and NHS .  can use to improve their commissioning decisions. Their remit also extends to greater integration and partnership working, including joint commissioning, integrated provision and pooled budgets.. However, despite this broad remit, HWBs have no formal powers. Their ability to influence commissioning depends on their success in building relationships. While some see this as key to their success, others believe that a lack of formal powers is limiting effectiveness and causing confusion.. So has the introduction of HWBs made an impact at a local level, and could a broader remit and more government support be key to their success in the future?. David Lammy MP, chair of the all-party parliamentary group on wellbeing economics, believes HWBs have the potential to extend their influence beyond the health and social care systems, “helping to reorient local services around wellbeing outcomes and draw links between different areas of policy.”. Lammy thinks that HWBs should broaden their remit even further, looking into areas such as housing, planning and environmental policy. “After all,” he says, “all of these areas affect people’s wellbeing, and all should have the ultimate goal of improving wellbeing.”. He is however realistic about the level of support required to realise this vision. “Of course, if boards are to play this role they need to be equipped to do so: among other things this means training and guidance from central government and organisations like Public .  England.”. Dr Katherine Rake, chief executive of Healthwatch England, observes that successful HWBs are collaborating with providers of housing and environmental services, but warns that broadening their remit could cause them to lose focus.. “People’s health problems rarely exist in isolation,” she explains. “Wherever there is a higher prevalence of unemployment, issues with housing, lack of public transport etc, we find a larger number of people struggling to stay well.. “However, there is a balance to be struck here. HWBs already have a huge remit, and we don’t want them getting distracted or becoming unwieldy and ineffective like the old local strategic partnerships.”. In Cambridgeshire, the local HWB is helping to deliver innovation, providing an opportunity for leaders to collaborate and identify opportunities for sharing skills and linking resources, leading to better outcomes for the public.. Peter Roberts, executive councillor for environment, waste and public health in Cambridge city council, says: “Our local health partnership in Cambridge is working well under the county’s health and wellbeing board, although operating within a two-tier authority does add another layer of complexity to the situation. I’m not sure that this challenge can be met with more funding: rather, I think it’s more about strong lines of communication between agencies, robust evaluation of services and solid decision-making.”. In Islington, the HWB offers an opportunity for joined-up working. “We’ve found our health and wellbeing board to be very valuable in terms of getting all the key local players around one table and sharing knowledge and ideas on how to coordinate and link up local services,” says the council’s leader , Richard Watts.. He acknowledges however that HWBs can “struggle due to lack of formal powers”.. “I’d like to see HWBs have a stronger role in commissioning services at a local level, to ensure that commissioning is truly informed by local needs, rather than central government decision-making processes,” he adds.. Nick Forbes, of Newcastle city council, agrees that a lack of formal powers is an issue.. “In Newcastle our health and wellbeing board is linked to our Change for Life programme, which exists to meet public health goals such as tackling obesity and smoking in the community,” he says. “Our HWB does offer a good opportunity for joined-up working, but in view of its lack of formal powers or resources, its usefulness rests solely on the strength of the relationships of the key players that sit on the board.”. Forbes believes that this lack of formality contributes to a level of confusion about “what HWBs are and what they can realistically deliver”.. In terms of support from national government, it is clear that Public Health England and other central government agencies are in favour of active and dynamic HWBs.. Prof Kevin Fenton, national director of health and wellbeing for Public Health England, says HWBs “are an ideal forum to bring together planning, housing, transport and other local departments and organisations to make it easier for communities to live healthier lives”.. While direct support appears to be fairly thin on the ground, there are strong examples of early success and a widespread feeling of goodwill towards health and wellbeing boards at a local, regional and national level. With clearer remits, local collaboration and concerted levels of support and guidance from central government, we could see them playing an important role in local communities in years to come.