nusually for a midwife, I work nine to five, Monday to Friday. I generally care for the women who are the most chaotic substance and/or alcohol users; those who find it difficult to fit in with the “normal” maternity systems.. Some women may not yet be engaged in drug or alcohol treatment. Many have had traumatic childhoods, they may be experiencing domestic abuse and often have mental health problems among other things. These women are often living in inappropriate or insecure housing, or are homeless.. We have recently seen an increase in the number of women from European Union countries who do not have any recourse to public funds, due to recent changes in immigration and benefits rules. This means services are unable to help women with housing or detoxification and rehabilitation programmes, and in some cases they can’t even afford to eat. Last year, a woman in this position felt she had no other option than to go “home” – where she had no social support, nowhere to live and had left to get away from an abusive partner. She worried that if she stayed here in the UK, her baby would be taken away from her. I don’t know what happened to her. It was hugely upsetting and left me feeling professionally impotent.. We try hard to find ways of making it easier to access care. Research tells us that even if women don’t manage to address their drug or alcohol use during pregnancy, having antenatal care improves the outcomes for both mum and baby.. We do have a considerably higher DNA (did not attend) rate for appointments than the usual. It’s sometimes a little frustrating when you have to wait for someone who doesn’t turn up several times in a row, but on the whole I’m a pretty patient person and don’t take it personally. This is one of the reasons we also offer an outreach service and will see people pretty much wherever we can.. If one of my women is in the hospital I will go straight there, liaising with obstetricians, ward midwives, neonatologists and social workers. I sometimes take a card and some chocolates if they have had their baby, it’s nice to show you care.. Postnatally, we are able to offer some types of contraception before clients go home. For some clients whose babies are removed, we refer them to the . , which helps support them during a highly vulnerable time of their life. Women who have experienced this are at an extremely high risk of postnatal depression and suicide.. The subject of neonatal abstinence syndrome, or NAS (the baby withdrawing, usually from opiates, alcohol or benzodiazepines), is emotive. I always stress that it is never guaranteed that a baby will have NAS: some babies are absolutely fine and there are things we can do to reduce the risk. If a baby does experience NAS, it is important to remember that this is a treatable, temporary condition.. As well as managing my caseload, creating care plans, attending child protection meetings, service monitoring and improvement, and policy writing, I do lots of teaching. This takes different forms, from days spent with the team, to small group sessions or larger lectures. For me, this is a gratifying part of the job.. I try hard to maintain a clear boundary between my work and home life, as sometimes working with this client group can be emotionally draining. I love cooking and this often helps me switch off from the day. I was sent on a mindfulness course by my employer and as well as learning skills to share with clients, I now practise this myself.. Despite this, it’s sometimes impossible not to lie in bed at night wondering whether a woman we’ve not managed to see for a while is OK, or asking how a woman who has been discharged without her baby might be feeling. But I also think about all the small successes that feel like huge achievements (like a client managing a week drug free), and the families who manage to overcome huge obstacles to stay together.. I became inspired to do midwifery after seeing my mum give birth to my little sister in a pool in our living room when she was 44. I was 19 and it was an incredible, life changing experience.. The trust I work at is dynamic and in an interesting area. Despite the never-ending pressure with funding cuts, an increasing birth rate, and a seeming lack of recognition (financial or otherwise) for the work we do from the government, I could never give up on the . . I could never give up on the women. I love that there are so many different ways of being a midwife and although I have no idea where my career will take me in the future, I know it will be fascinating.