It’s the small things that count. How we show our care and appreciation for friends, family and loved ones often comes down to small, minor actions. A breakfast in bed here, a washed up plate there, a laundry load ironed without asking. Over the last two-and-a-half years of working for the .  I’ve realised the same is true there as much as it is at home. Sometimes simply being offered food, water or a precious 10-minute break has made me feel more valued, appreciated and a part of a team, than hearing unending praise from the bosses.. Some weeks ago, during a busy afternoon A&E shift, I ran the resuscitation bay. An 83-year-old woman was in an ambulance on her way over. She was really unwell: her heart rate was fast and she made only strange groaning noises. Her blood pressure was dropping no matter what I tried. I thought she was about to crash. I felt the pressure.. Then I spotted it. A red form nestled in all the paperwork sent by the nursing home: do not attempt resuscitation. I started to question what I was doing; all the intravenous fluids, all the blood tests, all the antibiotics through the drip – does this count as resuscitation? I needed help and spoke to the A&E consultant. He quickly took stock of the situation; the numbers, the paperwork, that red form, my overwhelmed state. Together we talked to her family: did they know what was going on, what were their wishes, what would she have wanted?. We made her comfortable. I continued with my shift but a few hours later I was called back to speak with more family members who had come to say their goodbyes. Shortly after, without any words, a cup of tea appeared in front of me and my consultant gave me the chance to process what had happened. This one cup of tea was a momentary pause, a hiatus, a lifeline in an otherwise frantic shift.. Thankfully I’m not alone in experiencing these small mercies at work, as rare as they might be. I have friends with similar stories, in different departments: doctors appearing out of the woodwork to help mop up unfinished letters, nurses who supply the sweets for a night shift, the colleague who stayed late so that someone could make a birthday dinner.. We know morale isn’t high within the NHS right now. With winter pressures growing, staff are stretched, pushed and pulled. Targets need to be met. But don’t confuse these feelings of deflation with a lack of passion for the NHS. As a friend recently said: “It’s a bit like your sister. You can moan about her all you like, but it’s your sister. You still love her, and only you can talk about her behind her back.”. With that in mind, I have every right to complain about the NHS. I could have mentioned the times I felt abandoned working a night shift on surgical team or the stories I’ve heard from my peers about the isolation they’ve experienced on call. But instead, I want to focus on the positives, the good, the care for colleagues I’ve seen.. These kind acts make you feel nurtured and valued. When people feel overworked, overwhelmed and over it, why would they go that extra mile for a co-worker? After all, they could argue, no one’s doing it for them. But with a culture of generosity and an appreciation of small selfless actions, I believe that the opposite can become true.. My hope for anyone working busy, hectic, non-stop shifts when it all feels too much is that these small acts of kindness – a thank you note, a hot drink or a Celebration chocolate that isn’t a Bounty – might be there waiting for them when they need it most.