ost people involved in delivering health and social care are committed to making integration happen. They know it’s a good thing and can see the benefits for care and for the people who use services. But like any complex reform involving multiple agencies, they often struggle to see what it actually means for them and what they need to do differently to make it happen. This has to change if integration is to become a reality and not just a pipe dream.. Better training, including joint training for social care and health staff, can help us to move forward. Pooled budgets, plus clear joint delivery and governance structures, involving those who lead both health and social care will also help. However, these changes alone will not be enough: communication and engagement with staff, people who use services and the public will play an essential role in the ultimate success of integration.. A new guide, soon to be produced by the consortium that is delivering the national .  support programme argues that better integrated care can only happen with good engagement and communication. It is an essential, but often overlooked, leadership role. In the guide we’ll describe how important good communication is to driving better integrated care.. We’ll point to examples of areas where focus on good communication and engagement has helped services make more rapid progress on integrating care. For example, in Kent, they talk about how they are now supporting “Amanda”. A record of what Amanda wants has been discussed with her by her care coordinator. Her family knows they can receive an update on her condition when they need it, as they’ve been given access to her care plan. All services that Amanda comes into contact with are focused on treating her as a person and not just her focusing on her condition. As a result, Amanda feels confident in the quality of services she’s receiving.. So what are the practical steps that need to be taken? First we need to develop a shared and compelling explanation for our local health systems about how integration will improve outcomes for people in the future. In Kent, they want to improve outcomes through an integrated system that is sustainable for the future. We need to co-produce this narrative with frontline staff and people who use services, as Islington did with the animation of . , which describes how frontline staff can enable care to be integrated.. Second, we can develop a common and agreed language. We all know how jarring it can be when those leading this agenda talk only about hospitals and patients. A shared language which also talks about people who use services and community-based care and support will go some way to overcoming these frustrations.. Third, see everyone as a potential communicator. This isn’t just a remit for communications professionals or senior leaders. Identify and equip a broad range of staff and people who use services to become communication champions; taking up a role where they both disseminate information and also gather feedback on what is working and what needs improvement.. Finally, we need to engage people who use services, carers, families and the wider public in plans for better integrated care. This involves ensuring that people who use services, or their representatives, are on decision-making boards, and that expert-by-experience patients and people who use services shape, deliver and evaluate communication plans. This means that regular opportunities are created (both face-to-face and online) for the public to contribute to our plans. An important part of this strategy is to provide easy-read version of better care plans, as well as ongoing updates.. It’s not enough, for instance, just to issue emails to staff. In this age of mass digital communication, staff can become desensitised to a constant bombardment of information. For communication to succeed, there needs to be reinforcement through conferences, workshops, staff meetings and supervision.. Staff are truly committed to delivering integrated health and social care. However, only with better communication and engagement are they fully likely to understand their role in making it happen.