And now they tell me. As I approach my 85th birthday, .  (PHE) has revealed that the flu jab I had back in September is only 3% effective .  of the A(H3N2) virus. There has been a genetic “drift” in the virus since the vaccine to counteract the original strain was ordered for the NHS back in February last year. The virus chooses as its target frail old people with multiple co-morbidities. So here am I, virtually defenceless against it.. To make it worse, I heard last week that the death rate among old people this winter has gone up by almost a third (32%). The odds, dear reader, are that this will the last article I write for you. But be of good cheer; it’s now February, and in a month spring will be here and the flu virus will fade away. Hope springs eternal in the human breast.. I am disturbed that officialdom has announced this unfolding disaster so late, a month after smart people had already twigged what was happening. At the beginning of January an acquaintance, who happens to be the chairman of one of the larger London teaching hospitals, started hunting for the reason for the spike in A&E visits.. He and his advisers were aware of all the trends: people (like me) living longer and with more complex conditions; drunks stumbling in over Christmas; the 111 service directing too many people to A&E; patients coming to hospital in desperation because they cannot wait two weeks for a GP appointment, and some arriving with trivial complaints; cuts in social services closing down community beds and causing bed-blocks in hospitals - the list goes on. All these well understood trends were factored into the hospital’s planning for the Christmas surge, but they didn’t explain the spike.. On 9 January – four weeks before PHE announced that the new flu strain had outsmarted the .  vaccine – my friend, who has an enquiring mind and disinclined not accept without question what the managers and hospital consultants tell him, emailed me. He said his chief nurse had told him that “this year’s flu jab is notably less effective than previously. It is missing one strain which is now around. Consequently there is more flu and, given more old people, this is leading to respiratory, cardiac and other complications including pneumonia. This of course would explain the timing of the huge increase in A&E admissions because six weeks before Christmas is the beginning of the flu season.”. His chief nurse was right (as chief nurses usually are) and she pre-empted PHE in putting her finger on the real reason for the upturn before anybody else gathered enough evidence to go public.. The moral here is that if you want a quick and reliable answer to a health crisis, don’t wait for the official statistics from national bodies, or the qualified views of hospital managers (whose instinct is to cover up bad news) and consultants (who live in hermetically sealed boxes of their specialities). Ask the nurses, as it is they who know what is really going on in any hospital. It might leave you time to do something to mend the problem.. If you wait for the completed statistics and the carefully weighed and considered opinions of the bureaucrats or academics - or, later, the spin of the politicians - you will have missed the bus. It will be too late to change things for the better.. My friend is particularly incensed about the political kerfuffle the A&E crisis has prompted. To him “all the political to-ing and fro-ing is so much hot air. The pressure A&E is under has nothing to do with all that – it is down to a mistaken flu jab formulation.” Look for history to repeat itself next Christmas, as the 2015-16 flu jab formulation will be fixed in February.