onday morning. 6.15am sharp. My glowing phone alarm goes off shrilly and, like clockwork, I hit the snooze button for a precious extra 15 minutes. By the time the next alarm has gone off, I am usually sitting upright in bed checking Twitter and emails. An hour later, I’m showered, dressed and out the door. This is a routine I have perfected down to the final second. If I’m not in the car by 7.30am, I will be a slave to north circular traffic.. My first stop on arrival is always the coffee shop. Armed with caffeine, I head to my shared office to plan for the rest of the day and start prioritising which tasks need to be done urgently. There are usually a pile of papers containing messages to call patients, letters that need to be signed, correspondence from GP colleagues and referrals they have sent in to the department that need to be sorted.. Just before 9am, I make my way to the Chaucer Unit, the .  at Northwick Park hospital. Every Monday morning, I hold a paediatric dermatology clinic, seeing children below the age of 16 with varying skin problems including eczema, acne, birthmarks, and . . It can often be a challenging clinic and it is important to give parents enough time to address their fears and concerns. I was taken on by the hospital just under a year ago to build the paediatric dermatology service. I realised how much I need a team of people around to help me to achieve this. . The clinic tends to be full with a waiting list of at least a few weeks. If there is an acutely unwell child with a rash, they may often be added to that morning’s clinic. If there is a patient that will breach the government-set target for waiting times, I receive a telephone call from one of our management team requesting they are also added on as an extra patient. These scenarios are common in the .  and a lot of extra work is absorbed by clinicians, because ultimately we want to help our patients and colleagues.. I try my best to leave the clinic by midday as I have to get to the regular skin cancer multidisciplinary meeting. Here, alongside other medical colleagues such as surgeons and pathologists, we discuss all the new skin cancer diagnoses that have been made and make a treatment plan for them. . Immediately afterwards, the consultant body carry out a ward round. We take medical students with us as this forms part of a teaching exercise for them. Any patients that are currently in hospital with an acute rash, often undiagnosed, are seen by us. . Over the years dermatology has become a threatened specialty and people have questioned whether our work could be done in the community. This particular afternoon, we see patients with a condition called .  and another who is red all over, or . ; these are prime examples of why dermatology expertise is needed in secondary care and to ship us out of hospitals would be a grave mistake for patients..  It is nearly 3pm by now and after the ward round, we grab a sandwich and return to our office to have a consultant’s meeting. We discuss further plans for the department, clinical governance and safety issues, any problems, staff shortages, the list goes on. . I then sort through CVs of potential locum doctors as a colleague is on maternity leave. In between, there are constant knocks on the door, from administration staff that need a letter signed, a junior doctor who would like a dermatology review, a pharmacist that would like to discuss some nurse-led clinics. . Sometime after about 5.30pm, I sit down with my paperwork that I had sorted first thing this morning and make my way through signing about 40 letters, returning phone-calls, triaging GP referrals so that new patients may be given appointments, and reviewing results of tests. Only about half of being a good consultant is clinical care, the other half is being an efficient administrator.. I’m usually home by 7.30pm and exhausted. But, I love my job and the thought of doing something else never crosses my mind. Once outside work, I think it is important to allow the mind and body to unwind, and regular yoga practice is one way I achieve that. My aim, though, is never to switch off entirely from work, I think this is something common to many doctors as it one of the defining facets of who we are as people.