The emerging health policies for the main political parties reveal sharp differences in content and presentation - yet all three fail to offer a convincing plan for change.. Labour’s policy is laced with anti-private sector rhetoric and makes ambitious promises on everything from cancer tests to staff recruitment. The Liberal Democrats, meanwhile, have allied themselves to NHS England’s .  by promising to meet the £8bn funding gap it identifies, while placing its health policies in the context of wider public sector reforms and increased local control. . The .  don’t want to fight on this territory at all; their interest is in closing down debate on the NHS and focusing on the economy. Health does not feature in their top six election priorities.. , launched in January, is built around its opposition to competition for NHS contracts, an issue it highlights 20 times. In government, the party would repeal the Health and Social Care Act 2012 in the first Queen’s speech and block most use of the private sector by replacing competition with an “NHS preferred provider” policy. This would remove the role of regulator Monitor and the Competition and Markets Authority in policing competition within the NHS. Shadow health secretary Andy Burnham has pledged to exempt the NHS from domestic and EU procurement and competition law..  has also committed itself to concrete recruitment numbers: 20,000 more nurses, 8,000 GPs, 3,000 midwives and 5,000 homecare workers. They will be paid for by a £2.5bn “time to care” fund using proceeds from the proposed mansion tax, a tax avoidance crackdown and a levy on tobacco firms. It is taking a risk in predicting with such certainty both the numbers of additional staff it will recruit and the revenues from such unpredictable taxes.. Labour’s integration of health and social care to deliver “whole person care” would be underpinned by a single “year-of-care budget” for patients with complex needs. Burnham has previously talked about reinventing the district general hospital as a hub for whole person care, with the implication that social services could be run from hospitals. That is not spelled out in the latest document.. Despite Burnham’s denials, the sketchy plans for integration, the abolition of the 2012 Act, the change in Monitor’s role and the lack of clarity over the future of .  England look suspiciously like another top-down reorganisation. To deflect that accusation, the policy emphasises that local areas will be free to find their own routes to integration.. The party promises a single point of contact for people with complex physical and mental health conditions “with the authority to get things done”. This implies they would act as care navigators, helping people through the system, and have the clout to compel clinical teams to provide coordinated care. This would be a major cultural and structural change in the management of clinical teams.. It is striking that Labour’s document makes no mention of .  (pdf) – which is driving much new thinking in the NHS – or indeed NHS England at all. The overall tone is reasserting direct political control over the health service.. In an interview with The House, the magazine for MPs and peers, shadow health minister . . Kendall emphasised the power of personal budgets to allow patients to build services around their needs; they were not mentioned in Labour’s plan. She also highlighted the importance of the private sector in challenging existing ways of working.. While all the parties have pledged more money, the .  are promising to increase annual NHS spending by £8bn a year by 2020-21, matching the call for more funds laid out in the Forward View. The big beneficiary would be mental health – a long-standing Lib Dem priority – with an extra £500m a year. Policies include signing the NHS up to a “zero suicide” campaign. The Lib Dems would loosen the requirements around tendering services, and keep the .  out of NHS mergers.. Like Labour, the Lib Dems would give health and wellbeing boards a bigger role, including the power to control budgets. But in both cases their exact role is unclear. The Lib Dems have also .  to facilitate joint commissioning across a range of local services, the wheels oiled by additional funding.. Conservative health secretary Jeremy Hunt has indicated that he still sees a . , while moving his party into the territory of clinical improvement by .  through analysis of patient case notes. England will be the first country in the world to monitor avoidable deaths in this way.. While Labour will ensure health policy generates election controversy, it is unclear whether it will swing votes. The Conservatives’ aim is simply not to lose voters over the NHS, while Labour’s anti-private sector approach seems to be aligned with a core vote strategy, rather than an attempt to win new supporters. Kendall’s backing for personal budgets shows where Labour could have gone in the search for new voters.. Compared with NHS England’s own approach, the party policies seem dated – focused on central targets for recruitment and access, partisan views about competition and the traditional politicians’ displacement activity of structural meddling. The Forward View, by contrast, is focused on creating the conditions for clinical innovation and service rationalisation. The best policy for the next government would be to give it time to work.