 recently won an award for compassionate care. I was thrilled to be acknowledged in this way. But, reflecting on the award, I’ve had to ask myself: “What is it all about? Why have I been honoured, and what does ‘compassionate care’ actually mean?”. It appears to me that I won the award for doing my job – for showing basic care and compassion, and simple human decency. This is the bread and butter of nursing, surely? Why a special award? If bus drivers got a commendation for driving a bus would we not all be up in arms about an award we would claim as ludicrous?. As a nurse, I feel honoured to have the chance to care for people and to be able to make a difference to their journey through the maze of the . . It is these people – the patients – that are the superheroes. It is they that often deserve an award.. I recently cared for a lady – let’s call her Joyce – who has to battle the barriers and obstacles society places in front of people who are transgender every day. This journey through life and through the NHS had led to her losing faith that she would ever be treated in a way that was anything other than below standard. When she came onto my ward, I was shocked to find inequalities evident in the care being delivered and I was further destroyed by how this had been allowed to happen. Why did she not have her name on the bed board? Why did her care plans appear to avoid any mention of her gender? Why had her hormone therapy not been reinstated as she had requested? By treating her differently to other people, I believed we were not only breaching her right to be treated as a person but also creating very serious psychological risk to both Joyce and her wife.. From getting her medication reinstated, her care plans reviewed and her name being corrected, I met challenges. What became apparent was that actually the majority of the staff agreed that these changes were required and appropriate. Despite this they did nothing.. I believe this inability to challenge things that go wrong is an all too familiar story in healthcare in the UK, and since winning the award I have received a number of letters from people saying the same. Frontline staff have the compassion within them to know what is right, they have the desire to do what is right, the competence to deliver what is right, yet the courage to challenge when things aren’t right is often missing. Why? Because they fear repercussions.. I didn’t do anything that the rest of the staff didn’t want to do, I did what they felt the system wouldn’t allow them to do. Challenging people senior to you, who have power over your employment, is very hard to do. I would always challenge any element of care that I would not be happy with for my own mum or dad, son or daughter, brother or sister to receive.. So I now think compassionate care is not just about treating people decently, being kind and listening, it’s also about a willingness to challenge, to rock the boat when things aren’t as good as they should be.. Does this make me a superhero? Am I worthy of an award? No, I’m just doing my job. And it’s not too different from what a bus driver does every day.