heir numbers have grown by a third since 2002 and they now make up about 6% of the NHS workforce. They already deliver the prevention, public health services and integrated out-of-hospital care that .  and the health service financial sustainability agenda are crying out for.. They are the allied health professionals (AHPs): occupational therapists, physiotherapists, podiatrists, paramedics, prosthetists and others – who, according to . , are well primed to address the key challenges facing health and care. Yet, the same research also says, their contribution to the NHS is obscured.. AHPs are a relatively cheap resource, argues Steve Tolan, head of practice and development at the . , as their work revolves around moving patients towards independence, rather than expensive interventions.. Tolan explains how, all too often, patients leave hospital less fit than they went in. “Patients come into hospital and their world shrinks. It gets reduced to a bed and a chair. They’re also surrounded by more opportunities to become unwell through hospital-acquired infections.. “Alongside that are lots of issues: fines for hospital that have failed discharges, or burdens on A&E departments where patients are discharged and have to come back in. So you need AHPs to help patients remain active and capable of going home, and to ensure that when a patient is discharged, it’s right first time.”. Julia Scott, chief executive of the . , describes her members as, “the glue; the permeable barrier,” enabling the process of discharging patients to operate effectively.. Are commissioners getting this message? Suzanne Rastrick, chief allied health professions officer at . , says: “I think there’s a propensity to think of the NHS workforce as doctors and nurses, and this can lead to perceptions that other groups, such as AHPs and scientists, are undervalued.”. Linda Hindle is the lead AHP at . . In her experience commissioners buy a wide range of services without always fully understanding them. Contracts are rolled over year-on-year, and the contribution of AHPs is ignored.. “I’ve had informal conversations with CCGs [clinical commissioning groups] and commissioners to test things out and one of the solutions that we are going to try is a pilot with the London AHP advisory group, where it acts as an advisory forum for our public health commissioners,” she says.. Commissioners, however, can only make decisions based on data; what they can see, measure or benchmark. AHP representative bodies recognise there is a paucity of information, particularly in nationally collected datasets.. Tolan says: “We can see what good looks like, through the activities of local services, but the ability to benchmark, to have those comparisons, is a real challenge for commissioners. When you add competition and marketisation in healthcare, that can feed into a lack of trust between commissioners and clinicians.”. The.  took a step in the right direction back in 2001, when it began to include AHPs measures in its stroke care statistics. The Nuffield Trust found this has driven up compliance with national standards: by 2013, 94% of patients admitted to hospital with stroke had a physiotherapy appointment within 72 hours, compared to just 59% in 2001. In addition, almost 80% of stroke patients had a swallowing assessment by a speech and language therapist within 72 hours, up from 62% in 2001.. At the end of 2014, the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy launched its . . This online calculator enables local decision makers to map the cost of falls and the return on investment for physiotherapy. It shows that in England for every £1 spent on physiotherapy, the NHS gets £1.50 back in savings.. Public .  England has commissioned Sheffield Hallam University to scope the impact of AHPs on public health. Hindle expects a report in June 2015 and says the research will identify current evidence, examples of good practice and where work should be scaled. It will be used in dialogue with commissioners..  by the National Information Board, published last November, provides a framework for clinicians to have access to comprehensive data on the outcomes and value of services. It promises comparative information on all publicly funded health and care services, including the results of treatment and what patients and carers say.. There will however be levels of priority for the various healthcare professions to implement the board’s recommendations and Tolan has concerns that AHPs could be a long way down the list.. Data should not be seen as a universal panacea that, alone, will drive up quality, maintains Scott. “It’s a way of measuring, but other service improvements have to come with it – and some degree of investment.”. For Tolan, if commissioners are intent on reversing dependence on the health system, then AHPs are vital. “If you haven’t considered the role of AHPs in a particular pathway, you’re unlikely to achieve your financial and quality goals.”