Chancellor George Osborne’s announcement that the entire £6bn health and care budget for Greater Manchester is .  has repercussions for the whole NHS. It opens up a new front in national and local moves to overhaul the funding system, regulate systems instead of organisations, make services locally accountable and to breach the wall between social care and health.. While many people in the NHS dislike the idea of direct local government control, local politics has always been a powerful influence on reconfiguration debates. The NHS compares poorly with councils when it comes to making tough decisions about services, and many politicians and council managers are angered by the way .  trusts run up uncontrolled deficits – something that is not tolerated in town halls. Perhaps local government will have the courage to take decisions that seem so difficult for the health service.. A major weakness of the Manchester plan could turn out to be the complicated governance arrangements. The details will not be finalised for many months, but from April 2016 a Greater .  strategic health and social care partnership board will set the direction, while a joint commissioning board bringing together representatives of NHS England, the 12 clinical commissioning groups and 10 councils will make decisions on services affecting the whole city region.. However, the clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) and individual councils will be far from redundant. It seems likely that much of the joining-up of commissioning will take place locally. The 14 NHS providers in Greater Manchester will be grappling with three layers of control; there will be a substantial risk of confused and complicated decision-making. As plans currently stand, there will be further disruption from the arrival of the directly elected mayor in 2017 – just as the existing players will finally be settling into new patterns of working.. Although the CCGs will be busy – not least working out what they are still responsible for – the wisdom of continuing with 12 of them once the joint commissioning board kicks in has to be open to question, inviting further turbulence in the system.. All these games will be played according to rules drawn up by NHS England, the Department of . , the Treasury, Monitor, the Care Quality Commission (CQC) and the NHS Trust Development Authority. They have a huge number of decisions to make which will have implications across the country. These decisions include: where accountability lies for the £6bn, how the payment system will work, the extent to which Greater Manchester will be allowed to allocate money without outside interference, and how the system will be viewed by regulators.. The implications for Monitor and the CQC are substantial. This will accelerate Monitor’s moves to look at health economies rather than individual organisations, while the CQC inspection regime’s sharp divisions between primary care, hospital care and social care risk reinforcing an outdated model of service provision.. Turning Greater Manchester into a truly integrated system would require substantial and sustained investment, not just the relatively modest sums earmarked for NHS England’s vanguard areas or the uncertain largess of Labour’s . . If there is a Conservative-led government after the election it will have a strong interest in finding extra funds to help this succeed. NHS England also has an incentive to fund it as a national exemplar of a new way of working.. Labour, on the other hand, is badly split on the issue, which the shadow health secretary, Andy Burnham, .  of one part of the country running its health service to different rules. If he ends up as health secretary again his monolithic approach will be sharply at odds with the encouragement for local variation in . .. It could be a decade or more before we know if the Greater Manchester experiment has worked. There is a heavy responsibility on all the parties involved to give Manchester the best possible chance. The worst outcome would be to have a system with the trappings of a radical experiment that is hidebound by the excessive central controls of the past.