There aren’t that many perks to being a doctor. Yes, the pay is good and it can be genuinely rewarding. But we’re made to work long and hard, while overstretched services and reams of paperwork have left us with sagging morale. Even our once beloved pensions are . , replaced by a much less favourable package.. But for all its grievances, the medical profession can always seek solace in that most medical of benefits – the free drug lunch.. Every hospital has them, and I dare say almost every doctor has accepted. Why not? We’re tired, stressed and run ragged. Can’t we allow ourselves this one luxury while we sit down for some lunchtime education? Where is the harm?. To answer that question, let’s think about what is actually going on at these lunches. A drug company sends a representative to a hospital with enough food to satiate the entire medical workforce. While the doctors tuck in, the rep has a captive audience to which they can make their pitch: prescribe our drug. The sole aim of this endeavour is to increase the uptake of new, expensive drugs, regardless of whether they are better than cheaper, older, more familiar drugs.. The medical professional’s standard response is depressingly predictable: that we are immune to marketing. That we, as scientists, can be convinced only by evidence, not by cheap tricks and gifts.. Well, I’ve got news for my fellow doctors, and it makes for uncomfortable reading. . . It is a fact we have to accept. Perhaps the sadder truth is that, deep down, we’ve always known it. Why else would the industry shell out so much money on marketing to us? The free lunches, merchandise, expensive dinners, strip clubs (. ) and golfing holidays - they’re all an investment.. All that money being spent on us is very flattering, but it is also good business. The industry knows that money spent marketing to doctors . . That’s why around a third of pharmaceutical industry revenue goes on marketing (while only a . ).. Defenders of the free lunch will argue that, with the sheer volume of information out there, drug reps are an invaluable source of information on new drugs. Again, this argument falls flat. . , .  and . , that drug companies cannot be trusted to give accurate information on their products. The research is out there, and as professionals it is up to us to find it. We shouldn’t be spoon-fed by interested parties.. There can only be, therefore, one conclusion. Free lunches, along with all forms of pharmaceutical marketing to doctors, harms our profession and our patients. They result in prescriptions based on marketing, not facts, which invariably leads to greater expense and reduced effectiveness.. In a time of phone hacking, expenses scandals and bankers bonuses, doctors have an opportunity to justify their position as the most trusted profession, and willingly distance themselves from the warm embrace of the pharmaceutical industry. We should do this now, before we become the latest group to lose the faith of the public.. I know of no doctor that would willingly harm their patients. But I do know many doctors who choose to deny the undeniable – we are only human, and there is no such thing as a free lunch.