Rail privatisation, newspaper ethics and the financial crash have all been the topic of important verbatim theatre projects. Now a subject even more dizzyingly complex is to be tackled: the . .. The . is to produce a new play called Who Cares, written by Michael Wynne and based on 18 months of interviews with nurses, doctors, managers, politicians, paramedics and historians, and staged promenade-style across the Royal Court building in central London.. The play has been timed to coincide with the election, although it will not be overtly party political, according to the Royal Court’s artistic director, Vicky Featherstone. “The NHS is a massive election issue,” she said. “It is something that defines who we are as a nation. One of the questions at the heart of it will be: do we deserve our NHS? Are we looking after ourselves well enough? Are we putting too much strain on it? Michael has talked to an extraordinary range of people.”. Wynne, who wrote the BBC TV series Being Eileen, starring Sue Johnston, said it had been important to him not to romanticise the past NHS or preach to the converted. The play will ask some big questions about an organisation that is the world’s fifth biggest employer with an annual budget of £100bn.. “I don’t feel it’s as black and white as when I started off; I think the issues are just really complex,” said Wynne. “I don’t know whether I’ve got any clear answers, I’ve got a few... people will have to come to see the play.”. Wynne has about 60 hours of recorded interviews with nearly 50 people “The first rough draft I did was about 300 pages,” he said. (Most plays are between 50 and 100 pages long.) . The original plan was to find an old hospital or similar and stage the play there, but logistics and costs got in the way, so it will now debut in the Royal Court’s smaller Jerwood theatre upstairs before the audience is led in groups to other spaces around the building.. Featherstone said: “We thought it was much better putting the money into the interviews and the project rather than the turning a site that doesn’t have cabling or electricity into somewhere you could have an audience. We’ve been NHS-ly selective about where we put our resources. Using the whole theatre is thrilling and people always love going into places where they don’t normally go – it’s a treat, isn’t it?”. The play has taken up a big chunk of Wynne’s life and the subject is dauntingly huge. “But I’ve loved it,” he said. “Normally it’s just sitting on my own making stuff up. People have been so fascinating and welcoming. There’s so much expertise and passion. You could do a play about one individual doctor at a time or one nurse.”. Debbie Hannan, Lucy Morrison and Hamish Pirie will direct the different parts of the play, announced as part of the Royal Court’s spring-summer season..  Other highlights include a new play, hang, by debbie tucker green, a playwright who prefers lower case letters. The play, also directed by tucker green, will star Marianne Jean-Baptiste, fresh from her role as a defence barrister in Broadchurch.