Progress in ending “institutional bias” against mental health patients in the .  is unacceptably slow and must be accelerated in the next parliament, a cross-party group of MPs and peers has said.. Despite pledges to achieve . , a report by the .  says that people with mental health problems receive substandard care that would not be tolerated elsewhere in the NHS. . Among its recommendations are a national target for reducing premature deaths among those with mental health problems given that, on average, people who have serious mental health illnesses die 15-20 years earlier than others. . It also calls for a review of how the government ensures the NHS carries out its commitment to improving mental health services, suggesting there is “little evidence to suggest that this aspiration to put mental health at the heart of the public health system is being reflected on the ground”..  charities expressed their support but said increased government funding was necessary.. Conservative MP James Morris, who chairs the APPG, said: “While there have been some good commitments from government and the NHS to improving mental health services, our inquiry found that progress has been unacceptably slow. . “There has been long-term failure over successive governments to give mental health equal priority with physical health; for too long poor quality mental health care has been tolerated in a way that would not be acceptable in physical health care.”. The report, which will be launched on Wednesday by the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt, also says that by the end of the next parliament, the.  should commit to increasing research on mental health to ensure it is proportionate to the prevalence and impact of mental health problems. . It also supports. .. The . chief executive Paul Farmer said: “While there have been some very positive moves towards better services in recent years, a much more concerted effort is needed to overcome years of neglect and under-resourcing. . “We need, above all, to see additional funding for NHS mental health services, to support the important recommendations the APPG has made.”. Mark Winstanley, chief executive of . , said: “As well as more funding for mental health services, we also need greater accountability and transparency about what the government, NHS England and commissioners are doing to improve care for people affected by mental illness.”