Less than 1% of the £700m allocated by the government for emergency care in England this winter ended up directly in A&E departments, according to a survey of senior clinicians working on the .  frontline.. , which commissioned the research, published on Wednesday, said the results suggested the cash was not spent in a way that would improve emergency services, with some of it even being used to pay off trust debts. .  issued an unusually strong response to the report, accusing the college of propounding “blatant inaccuracies”, while the Department of Health called the figures “nonsense”. . But college president Dr Clifford Mann said the failure to invest funds efficiently had contributed to “four of the most challenging months ever”, directly harming patients and frontline staff. . “It is so disappointing that our survey shows that the significant investment the government made to tackle the winter pressures has not reached the A&Es it was supposed to help,” said Mann.. “This report is an indictment of current decision making and investment in acute and emergency care. Patients and frontline staff deserve better and will be incredulous at the failure to adopt best practice and squander money on admission avoidance schemes that have self-evidently failed. . “This report should act as a catalyst to ensure the same mistakes are not made in 2015. . “In future it would make much more sense to release funding directly to hospitals for investment in A&Es.”. For the Ignoring the Prescription? report, the college contacted the clinical lead from each of the 225 emergency departments across the UK in January.. Of 100 senior emergency department consultants in England who responded to the winter funding question, 23 said their department had received none of the funding, with 35 saying they did not know if they had received any of it. . Responses included that the funding had been “incorporated into the trust’s financial bottom line” or “used to offset an increase in expenditure in July”.. The consultants were also asked about whether .  drawn up by the Royal College of Emergency Medicine, the . , the . , and the .  last year had been put into effect in their hospital. . None of them have been fully implemented by the majority of emergency departments, according to the survey results, which suggested that 80% of A&Es are not being supported by fully functioning seven-day services and less than a third have an appropriate skill mix and workforce in place to deal with their patient volumes and case mix.. An NHS spokesman said: “Hospitals report they’re spending over £400m on extra services this winter in A&E and for their emergency patients. And most hospitals say they have brought in co-located GP services [43% said this recommendation had been implemented fully, while 24% said it had been partially] as the report suggests. . “What’s more, most people recognise that as well as spending in A&E departments, patients also need well-funded primary, community and social care to help them stay out of hospital in the first place.”. A Department of .  spokeswoman said the cash had paid for 700 more doctors, nearly 4,500 more nurses and 5,000 more beds both inside and outside of hospitals to relieve pressure across the whole of the NHS.. The Royal College of Emergency Medicine said the true amount spent on staff and equipment in emergency departments was held by trusts and that it had submitted freedom of information requests to try to ascertain these figures.