ospitals are difficult to find your way around, with kilometres of near-identical corridors leading to door after door of similarly-named wards and treatment rooms. Strict hygiene requirements mean decor must be kept to a minimum, and evolving needs mean rooms often change purpose at short notice. All of this leads to a navigation nightmare, making hospitals intimidating places for many patients. As hospitals grow and change, it will only get worse.. This is a major problem for both visitors and the patients – data from 2013 suggests that around 6.9m outpatient hospital appointments, each costing an average of £108, are missed each year in the UK. Doctors we’ve spoken to attribute a significant fraction of these to navigation problems, especially at large hospitals.. In addition to the challenges faced by patients, hospital staff are often navigating unfamiliar environments, and under serious time pressure. A typical .  hospital has 5,000 staff members, most of whom work mainly in one physical area – even permanent staff may not be aware of the overall layout. In addition, many staff such as junior doctors, spend only a few months in a particular hospital as part of training rotations, or even less time as locums covering acute staff shortages.. My colleagues at .  and Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine published the . . All junior doctors interviewed for the survey reported getting lost on the way to urgent crash calls, potentially endangering lives as a result. One of our participants said: “Crash calls are often slowed when you don’t know where it is. Ward names can give no indication of where they are. Even registrars get lost sometimes.”. This research was limited to UK teaching hospitals, so the same may not be true elsewhere. But it’s clear that at least in the UK, the current provision of navigational aids is insufficient. We found that maps are often out of date and lacking in detail, with signage comprising of an overwhelming list of destinations described in medical terms or acronyms. So what can we do?. Systems we use to get around outdoors don’t work. Many of these rely on GPS which, as Roger McKinlay, president of the Royal Institute of Navigation, says is, “notoriously unreliable indoors”. Over the last few years, a number of potential app-based solutions for both patients and staff have been developed, using other signals like Wi-Fi. But, however impressive, many ignore key issues for hospital users, including the fact that the average age of hospital patients is higher than that of the general population, making them less likely to be app users. Additionally, hospital visits are often unplanned, so the app is rarely downloaded and ready.. To see what might work better, we tested three forms of indoor guidance. For this research, 21 volunteers were divided into groups and asked to navigate a hospital using video of their route, a basic map or written directions. They were then assessed on completion time, errors made and residual knowledge retained afterwards.. We presented the results of this work at the recent .  in Manchester. Video proved to be the most effective navigation aid, with users more than 30% faster than those using a map and more than 40% faster than those given a written route description.. These results will allow us to improve the navigation strategies already used by hospital patients, visitors and staff. Approaches may include incorporating video into smart signs at key junctions in the hospital, and the use of specialised information kiosks or volunteers to help patients and staff navigate more easily.. We hope that working towards better in-hospital navigation systems will lessen the stress on patients, visitors and staff, leading to increased staff efficiency, improved medical response times and a reduction in missed appointments.