.... I sit down at my desk. My first patient is not due for a few minutes. I’ve never kicked the habit of coming to work early, even in the years of the technological revolution that changed the face of general practice forever. Life has been different since .  England was replaced by the automatons.. I feel around for the micro USB port behind my left ear. Even though wireless transmission rates are pretty good, I still prefer the ultrafast USB 12.2 link to download the latest medical updates. I’ve had the last three days off, so there will be a lot of new guidelines, alerts, emails, novel medicines and recommendations to stop dangerous old therapies to download onto my integrated organic digital hybrid memory hard drive inserted into my hippocampus – the centre for memory and learning in my brain.. I notice that my own computer still takes several seconds to boot up. I wonder why doctors have the worst hardware and the slowest software, even though we have people’s lives in our hands. At least mistakes have decreased since the advent of the integrated hippocampal hard drive, enabling all medical knowledge to be deposited and updated weekly in the doctor’s memory.. I was one of the first to volunteer for the pioneering surgery. As I was getting a bit old by then I was also offered an age-extending procedure on the end of each of my chromosomes, known as telomere lengthening, which had just been perfected in the US. The drive had a lifespan that was longer than mine and it made economic sense to the research branch of the automatons. I had nothing to lose, really, because by that time half my salary was being paid towards a pension that wasn’t going to be enough to live on after the mid-century energy crisis.. Once I learnt to control the endless ebb and flow of information between the hard drive and my own brain, I found that I knew everything about everything. My patients have got used to me closing my eyes to access the data banks encrypted within. I not only know everything about everything, but I have set up my downloads so that I know the opinion of every doctor on every social media and journal website.. It is a lot to take in, but vastly superior to the old days. Now I can’t imagine having to ask the advice of a surgical automaton, or a robot physician at the local hospital. I am one of the last breed of human doctors. I am just lucky that the telomere project hasn’t been rolled out publicly, otherwise my patients would have no real need of me.. The computer pings. I pass a thought to the computer to send the first patient in. Outside my door I can hear a bleep as they hold their phone credit card in front of the barcode scanner, then a shuffle as they place all their belongings into a hatch at the side of the door. The 50-year-old woman stands in the doorway for two seconds while the MRI completes its scan, then comes in and sits down.. “You know, I remember the first time I met you,” I begin.