Charities could get 10-year contracts to help deliver NHS services if Labour wins the general election, the shadow health secretary, . , has told voluntary sector leaders.. Not-for-profit care organisations would be given “a form of preferred provider” status under legislation that a .  government would introduce to replace parts of the coalition’s 2012 Health and Social Care Act. The move would recognise their contribution to strengthening communities.. The announcement came as Burnham sought to allay fears in the voluntary sector that his plan to .  for delivery of health services would hit charities as well as private companies.. It fleshed out a commitment in Labour’s . , unveiled in January, to give voluntary sector providers “longer and more stable arrangements” than for-profit contractors.. Addressing the health and social care conference of Acevo, the voluntary sector chief executives’ group, Burnham said: “The voluntary sector should have a different status in law when it comes to contracting, in terms of length of contract and the way contracts can be renewed without open tender.”. Contracts could be based on “five- or 10-year arrangements” in acknowledgement of the contribution that not-for-profit agencies make to boosting volunteering, building community resilience and enhancing people’s wellbeing.. “It’s a simple recognition that if you support the voluntary sector to expand, to do more, you are also helping develop the wellbeing of those communities in which those organisations are based.”. Describing the idea as “a form of preferred provider, if you like”, Burnham pledged: “We will legislate for it in our bill that will replace the .  in the first parliamentary session [under a Labour government].”. The commitment is certain to be challenged by private care providers who deliver the bulk of . . But Labour is confident that it would be covered by new European rules on procurement designed to help community and social enterprises.. The precise definition of “not for profit” would be delicate, as some leading private providers such as Bupa have mutual status.. Sir Stephen Bubb, Acevo chief executive, warmly welcomed Burnham’s commitment. “In terms of Labour policy towards the [voluntary] sector, this is the most radical we have heard,” he said. “If it was to roll that our across public services as a whole, that would be fantastic.”. Acevo has .  urging development of so-called “alliance contracting”, whereby voluntary organisations are brought into consortia to run public service contracts as equal partners in a horizontal decision-making structure, rather than junior partners in a vertical hierarchy.. Simon Stevens, the .  England chief executive, told the Acevo conference that he wanted this to be the approach of the first wave of health and social care “integrated personal commissioning” pilots starting in April, under which people living with long-term conditions will be enabled to spend their own annual budgets for care and support.. Consortia that will oversee the pilots must include at least one NHS clinical commissioning group, one local authority and one voluntary organisation. Stevens has said that as many as .  by 2018.