The divide between the NHS and social care divide is increasingly blamed for a crisis in A&E services, so-called “bed-blocking” and much suffering, waste and inefficiency. So it is hardly surprising that the .  to transfer billions in NHS funding to the council has been met with widespread interest and support. This will mean that local authorities have control over health and social care budgets.. But what if instead of upping the game of the .  – Britain’s most loved public service – this brave new idea merely drags it down it to the level of social care, the most devalued and misunderstood welfare service? This is a possibility that demands more rigorous attention.. We need to look at the problems .  is trying to solve. First, by shifting funding from the NHS to the local authority, the aim is to meet the growing need for long-term support resulting from changing demographics. Older people and long-term conditions now make the major demands on our healthcare system. Second, by putting the local authority in charge, the goal is to shift from a hospital-based medical model, to a social approach that keeps people in the community and maintains well-being. Most of all, the aim is to put an end to the traditional health and social care divides that have been costly, wasteful and ineffective.. These are all real problems, but there is little reason to believe that the Manchester model will deal with them. Certainly it is nothing new. There was enormous pressure to adopt this same model post-war. But Aneurin Bevan, as health minister, quickly decided that local authorities were poorly placed to offer the organisational framework for the NHS that he sought to establish, with the core values we continue to associate with it. The public still seeks to protect those principles: of an NHS whose services are provided free at the point of use, are financed from central taxation and for which everyone is eligible.. Manchester offers instead a return to local health services. Central government will still have the power to cut local authority funding, as it already does in the name of austerity, but no responsibility when councils have little choice but to cut health care services. If such a system were rolled out nationally, central government could escape political pressure to ringfence NHS funding. And how would such a council-based system deal with . , uncommon conditions and the need for centres of excellence?. The NHS is subject to many kinds of change, most offered in the name of greater patient choice and control – hence the shift to outsourcing and privatisation. In social care, however, we have seen this result in an over-reliance on block contracts, zero-hour contracts, problems of standardised services, poor quality provision and the damaging collapse of major providers like Southern Cross. .  was meant to offer care in the community, yet nearly half a million people are still institutionalised, some undoubtedly for want of reliable support at home. The NHS is advancing personal health budgets as a route to patient power. Unfortunately, social care shows that local councils’ ability to deliver this is far from certain. Personal budgets have also been used to disguise cuts in collective services.. If we want good quality, integrated health and social care for all, three changes will be needed. Firstly, instead of the present needs-and-means-tested local authority system, we need to extend the taxation-funded, free-at-the-point-of-delivery NHS model to social care. Local authorities on their own cannot deliver this. Secondly, we will need a person-centred culture for health and social care. And finally, we need health and social care policies and services that are committed to public, patient and service user involvement. Both systems have so far failed to deliver this.. Service users experience as much difficulty getting accountability in council social services as they do in NHS healthcare. Successive governments have watered down provisions for such engagement, from community health councils, to local involvement networks through to the largely toothless health watch system. Whistleblowing continues to be a high-risk strategy for committed staff and service users. The .  on the Mid Staffs tragedy highlighted the inadequacy of local provisions for patient involvement. If there is one thing to remember about the Manchester experiment, it is that there are no magic bullets to achieve either integration or high-quality care. Instead, policymakers need to be listening to what practitioners and service users tell us and build from the bottom up.