I work one day a week as a hepatitis nurse specialist. I didn’t start my nursing career until I was 36 because there wasn’t a training college in the Bahamas where I lived.. I have spent 30 years at Mount Vernon hospital but reduced my hours to look after my husband who was diagnosed with motor neurone disease.. I still felt I had something to offer after he passed away and put the word out to colleagues. Someone mentioned hepatitis and I thought, why not?. I am on the road every Wednesday by 7.30am after a bowl of porridge. It is a lovely drive down through the Chilterns listening to Heart radio and I still enjoy my job five and a half years later.. The autonomy of the job is great. My consultant sends me patients diagnosed with hepatitis C and my job is to cure them. We’re a good team and being a senior nurse practitioner gives me the confidence to make my own decisions.. We discuss various cases after I’ve picked up my post and collected patients’ prescriptions and medical files.. Hillingdon is a typical London borough and we estimate around 1,200 people go about their daily lives without realising they are carrying the virus. .  usually comes to light when a general blood test reveals an anomaly.. Treatment can last up to 48 weeks, depending on which of the six strains a patient has. It is a long, tough treatment that includes self-administered injections, daily tablets and a number of uncomfortable side-effects. These include a weakened immune system, mood swings, sleeplessness and a low iron supply, which leaves patients feeling tired and lethargic.. Hepatitis C is a blood borne virus you can pick up from unsterilised medical equipment, unscreened blood transfusions in developing countries and shared items such as razors. Intravenous drug users are infected via shared needles, cooking spoons and filters. It can survive in minute traces of blood for weeks unlike HIV, which dies almost immediately outside its host.. I usually give my mobile number to patients and tell them to ring if they have a problem, much to the horror of my colleagues. I’m semi-retired now so don’t mind if people call. Some ring because of the side-effects of the medication, others because they need reassurance or a friendly voice.. There are some groundbreaking medicines coming on to the market in the next year or two but they don’t come cheap. A single course of treatment can be tens of thousands of pounds but what’s that compared to a liver transplant and the associated costs?. I usually finish seeing patients at around 4pm and then have a stack of paperwork to work through including writing out prescriptions for the following week. Sometimes I don’t leave work until 7pm.. I want to keep working until I am 70, which must make me a strong candidate for being last into the nursing profession and last out. My daughters are both registered nurses and I love being a grandparent, although I could do without the ageing bit.. My guilty pleasure is the American show Judge Judy, where a real-life judge sorts out people’s domestic disputes. She’s great. She sees things as they are, cuts to the chase and offers a practical solution. Maybe we should invite her to join the . .