If you’ve resolved to eat healthier, a salad is probably your go-to nutritious meal. But it doesn’t take long to grow tired of the same old bowl of greens.. Luckily there are plenty of creative mixes you can use to break from your #SadDeskLunch routine: Below you’ll find 25 salads that you’ll actually want to eat. And thanks to satisfying fiber and protein, these recipes will help keep you full until quitting time.. By packing your own lunch you’ll be saving calories, of course, as well as money—and if you commit to a Sunday afternoon of . , you might even save yourself some time, too: Knock out three workday lunches in one swoop, and you’re set til mid-week. (For more inspo, sign up for our . !). This fresh, protein-packed salad can be ready to go in just 30 minutes, and since the recipe makes enough for four servings, you can bring leftovers for multiple days.. Avocado or coconut oil, shrimp, salt and black pepper, garlic, lemons, Dijon mustard, raw honey, extra-virgin olive oil, cherry tomatoes, English cucumber, parsley, tarragon, thyme, avocado, Bibb lettuce.  364. Try this unexpected twist on the classic cobb, with fresh corn kernels, green beans, and unsalted sunflower seeds.. Baby arugula, steamed green beans, corn kernels, buttermilk-herb dressing (buttermilk, olive oil mayonnaise, lemon juice, chives, flat-leaf parsley, honey), thinly sliced celery, cherry tomatoes, sunflower seeds, hard-boiled egg. 311. Prepare your grilled steak and red wine vinaigrette ahead of time, then load up your bowl with veggies on weekday mornings before you head out the door. With a filling 26g of protein, this savory mix is sure to satisfy..  Romaine, English cucumber, roasted red bell peppers, grilled flank steak, grilled zucchini, grilled Japanese eggplant slices, red wine vinaigrette (red wine vinegar, lemon juice, Dijon mustard, extra-virgin olive oil, kosher salt, black pepper).  422. A crunchy, savory, and fun way to eat your tacos in salad form. In addition to protein, you’ll get calcium and iron from mix-ins like black beans, sour cream, and guacamole..  Plum tomatoes, red onion, cilantro, cayenne pepper, lime juice, olive oil, black beans, romaine lettuce, rotisserie chicken, corn, tortilla chips, guacamole, sour cream, cumin.  512. Store-bought rotisserie chicken breast cuts down on prep work in this super-satisfying bowl. Our homemade .  is lower in calories than many store-bought dressings, and thanks to fresh herbs like tarragon and dill, it’s loaded with flavor too.. Buttermilk, fresh tarragon, fresh dill, fresh chives, olive oil mayonnaise, white wine vinegar, fresh garlic, kosher salt, baby kale, thinly sliced radicchio, thinly sliced radish, shredded boneless skinless rotisserie chicken breast, salted roasted pistachios.  256