t is 16 years since the then Labour government launched Nice (the National Institute for .  and Care Excellence) with the aim of ending the “postcode lottery” by providing definitive expert-based national guidance on the drugs and treatments that should be provided by the NHS. In the runup to the general election it seems that Labour alone of the three main political parties wants to see significant changes that it says would strengthen Nice and guard against signs that the lottery is re-emerging.. Before Nice existed, drugs and medical technology appraisals were carried out piecemeal by professional and academic bodies, locally and nationally. Work was duplicated, standards were variable and the status of findings was frequently unclear. Doctors were uncertain as to which new products worked best and were best value for money. As a result patients in one part of England or Wales might get the latest cancer drug on the .  while those with the same condition just yards away across a health authority boundary might have to pay.. Its sometimes thankless role, as the arbiter of which drugs and treatments offer the best compromise between cost and effectiveness, draws criticism from patients, the pharmaceutical industry and clinicians. In spite of the anger generated by decisions on medicines such as beta interferon for multiple sclerosis, and drugs for Alzheimer’s and cancer, the general consensus seems to be that Nice has navigated between growing patient demand, limited budgets and constant medical innovation fairly well, and gained an international reputation for the quantity and quality of its guidance.. In 2009 Nice commissioned the World Health Organisation to carry out an independent review which, while recommending a range of improvements, concluded: “Nice is one of the largest, most productive and best organised developers of clinical guidelines in the world.” When considering new applications, Nice uses Quality Adjusted Life Years (Qaly) to measure the value for money of a drug or treatment. Qalys take account of the quality and quantity of life generated by that drug or treatment. A Qaly of one means a year of perfect health while a Qaly of zero is death – although some debilitating conditions generate a negative Qaly. Nice says that for drugs the cost per Qaly should not normally exceed around £30,000, although there is some flexibility here.. Critics say that assessing drugs or treatments for chronic diseases, where quality of life is perhaps more important than adding years, is difficult using this system. Patient groups point to the inadequate weight attached to emotional and mental health problems, and the lack of consideration of the impact of chronic health problems on carers and family.. Then there is the phenomenon of “Nice blight” – where a treatment will not be provided until it has been approved, sometimes a lengthy process. In response the coalition government introduced a £280m Cancer Drugs Fund in 2011 to pay for new medicines rejected on cost or efficacy grounds or still awaiting a decision.. The Liberal Democrats seem happy with Nice as it is. And the Conservatives would only point to an announcement from November last year of an innovative medicines and medtech review to see how better collaboration between companies and regulators including Nice could . . Under Labour, shadow health minister Andy Burnham wants to reform and speed up Nice’s technology appraisal process, set tougher rules on implementing guidance and expand patient involvement. “People don’t want postcode lotteries in healthcare,” he said . . “Nor do we want an NHS that sits in judgment on people’s lifestyle, with arbitrary restrictions on operations, or saying that people with two cataracts can only have clear sight in one eye. So we will stop that growing practice and re-establish the authority of Nice. If a service or medication is judged clinically necessary, effective and affordable, everyone should get it.”. He has promised a review to consider whether the cost-effectiveness threshold should rise above £30,000 for certain medicines, as Nice already applies to end-of-life drugs, and if there is a case for Nice to assess the wider benefits of a drug or treatment, rather than only looking at the costs and benefits for the health service.. The Cancer Drugs Fund will live again as the Cancer Treatments Fund although Burnham wants to know how Nice will consider new clinical evidence of a treatment’s effectiveness once it has been made available through the fund.. Nice would not comment on Labour’s proposals but a spokeswoman said that it reviews its procedures “on an ongoing basis to ensure technology appraisals and guidance are produced in the most effective way”. She said Nice is keen to work with companies to speed up its processes, offering them a “flight path” through development, evaluation and approval. Nice also proposes a plan for the NHS to pay for special case treatments, such as drugs for ultra-rare conditions and cancer.. “Nice is doing a decent job in difficult circumstances,” according to George McNamara, the Alzheimer’s Society’s head of policy. However he feels the drug appraisal system is “deeply flawed” and the way Nice is mandated to appraise drugs doesn’t adequately take into account the wider benefit of drugs for conditions such as dementia.. He wants appraisals to take patient and carer voices into greater account. “It’s welcome that patient representatives are invited to speak at (Nice) technology appraisal committee meetings but as the range of evidence [...] committees take into account is so limited to health economics it limits the impact of the patient voice.”. And he wants Nice to raise the standard of post-diagnostic care. “There’s too much of a postcode lottery when it comes to post-diagnostic support but we want to see Nice play their part in developing evidence-based guidelines to what best practice should look like.”