Ministers have been accused of failing cancer patients after it emerged that three key improvements to services pledged by the coalition have been delayed. . The hold-ups, involving key aspects of the government’s 2011 cancer strategy, have prompted concern that the growing number of people developing the disease will not get the best treatment possible. . The coalition has not delivered on its promise made to provide the .  in England with 12 extra machines, called linear accelerators or linacs, which give patients high doses of radiotherapy.. Jane Ellison, the public health minister, said in December that the NHS had 265 such machines in 2011-12 but just four more than that – 269 – in 2013-14, with just 256 “in full clinical use”. . The schedule for realising David Cameron’s pledge in 2010 that all 55-year-olds in England would be offered a new test for bowel cancer has also slipped. Originally that was due to happen by 2015-16, but was later amended to “the end of 2016”. However, progress has not been as quick as hoped to allow everyone turning that age a test using a technique called flexible sigmoidoscopy, raising doubts that the NHS will be able to offer it as planned in all areas by the end of next year. . Similarly, plans to open the first two NHS centres offering proton beam therapy in 2017, first pledged in 2012 by then health secretary Andrew Lansley, are also behind schedule. The Department of .  has admitted that, while work has begun to build the £250m centres at hospitals in London and Manchester, “the first facility is due to become operational in 2018” rather than 2017.. “The pledges set out in the 2011 cancer strategy are important to improve patient outcomes, and we’re very concerned to hear of delays in their implementation. We should be striving for all patients to receive world-class treatment and have the confidence that cancer is being prioritised by the NHS,” said Sarah Woolnough, . ’s executive director of policy. . Given the increase in the number of cases of cancer expected due to the ageing population, “improving early diagnosis and making sure the best treatments are available for patients must be a priority”, Woolnough added. . , which highlighted the delays, claimed that ministers had wrongly put money into offering access to cancer drugs rather than radiotherapy.. “David Cameron made a slew of promises to cancer patients in the early days of this government. The reality is that cancer care has got much worse on his watch and his NHS plan has failed,” said . , the shadow health secretary.. “It is not right that thousands of people every year who could benefit from radiotherapy are missing out because the government broke its promise on buying new machines.” . Juliet Bouverie, director of services and influencing at . , said: “It is vitally important that everyone has access to the treatment that is right for them, in a timely manner and in a place that is suitable for them and their loved ones. This includes radiotherapy and proton beam therapy.”. In a statement, a government spokesman said: “We inherited some of the worst cancer survival rates in Europe from Labour; now survival rates are at record levels. Far from breaking promises, by focusing on early diagnosis and increasing the availability of innovative radiotherapy above our own target, we are on course to save 12,000 lives extra lives a year from this disease.” . Whitehall sources said bowel cancer screening would be available to all 55-year-olds by the end of 2016. 