Andy Tysoe is a dementia nurse specialist at the Countess of Chester NHS trust who has been working with his local Tesco to enable it to become dementia friendly. Tysoe is very clear in his .  – that it’s not enough to keep talking about how you improve dementia care; you have to actually do it. As he says: “Never mind the dementia, let’s see the person.”. There is a lot of talk in the NHS about patients being responsible for their own care, which does not always translate into reality. Alex Silverstein has lived with diabetes for most of his life and has been working with his healthcare professionals to manage it successfully. .  wants to encourage true partnerships between patients and professionals.. Thirteen million women are going through menopause – that’s one third of the female population of the UK. The physical effects of menopausal symptoms can have a significant impact on a woman’s ability to function at work or at home. For one in four women who experience problems, help is hard to find. Dr Hannah Short and Natasha North are both healthcare professionals who have experienced the black hole of information around menopausal health and are .  that.. Dr Ron Daniels leads the UK Sepsis Trust and is a consultant anaesthetist. Through his clinical work he has seen many people die from sepsis and became frustrated at how this could happen when it is so easily treated. The key is quick identification and through this the UK Sepsis trust and the .  were born. The #sepsistoolkit campaign encourages wards and clinicians to download the toolkit and implement it in their organisations.. Lydia Salice is a service manager at Birmingham children’s hospital and has been involved in paired learning, created by Dr Bob Klaber, paediatric consultant at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, for the last few years. Lydia noticed that doctors and managers interacted very little. The .  pairs two professionals of any kind, and encourages them to work together on a change project within their trust.. The Stop the Pressure campaign is focused on eliminating pressure ulcers. A staggering 80% of pressure ulcers are preventable, and when the Stop the Pressure campaign first started they measured a 50% drop in occurrence within the region. Their .  has a lot of resources available..  is a national anti-mental health stigma campaign which asks people to consider their attitudes towards mental health, both individually and with colleagues. The campaign has also asked NHS staff with experience of mental illness to speak about their experiences. There have been a number of powerful and moving stories shared as a result.. Florence Wilcock is a consultant obstetrician at Kingston hospital and Gill Smith developed the game . , which enables players to live in the shoes of a person with dementia. Wilcock and Smith have taken the concept and applied it to the . , which can be an extremely vulnerable and difficult time for new and existing families.. When a person needs urgent or emergency care they can often forget to bring their ongoing medication, resulting in missed doses and clinical risk. .  is being run in conjunction with MedsIQ, a quality improvement website sharing resources for paediatric medication safety.. There are more than 100,000 medical, nursing or allied health professional students in the .  at any one time, in a unique position to be able to compare differences in departments and share best practice. Student Led Change challenges the misconception that students cannot make changes until they have a qualification and encourages them to get involved in local quality improvement in organisations..  This article was amended on 17 March 2015. Dr Bob Klaber is a consultant paediatrician at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, not UCL as a previous version said.