This is my 40th year in the .  and I’ve spent more than 33 years as a midwife and lecturer. I now work half the year in a clinical post and the other six months as an adviser for BBC 1’s Call the Midwife. I love the diversity of the roles, each requiring absolute commitment and professionalism. The midwifery and medical accuracy of the stories in the programme rest to some extent upon my shoulders, but I’m part of a skilled production team.. When I started my career in the mid-70s, I was taught by senior ward sisters and tutors who qualified in the late 50s and early 60s, the era when Call the Midwife is set. Their clinical skills and attitudes shaped my early career and their exacting standards made a significant impression on my practice. Those colleagues have retired but they are still reliable sources of information. Midwives and doctors have been very generous in sharing their knowledge and expertise, and they are keen for us to portray cases as authentically as possible.. I was asked by one midwife how we managed to get labouring women to agree to be filmed giving birth. Of course, some of the simulated births on Call the Midwife are better than others. But if some of the births have been realistic enough to trick professionals into thinking we were showing real births, we are doing well. .  lecturers have suggested that their students watch clips of Call the Midwife to see examples of a breech birth or good communication with a labouring mother. When filming any medical storyline, all aspects of the case will have been researched using material such as the latest text books and medical archives. As far as is possible, the cases are accurately portrayed. This might require the application of individual chicken pox spots by the make-up department, or showing an actress how to use a Pinard (fetal stethoscope).. Both parents and professionals now have information at their fingertips. The era in which the programme is set was a time when women had little access to information. . Ante-natal classes were offered to expectant and new mothers in a school-like environment. The health professional was considered to know best and pregnant women would meekly comply – very different from the partnership between a woman and her midwife today. It seems strange now, but mothers were expected to stay in bed at home or to stay in hospital for at least a week after their baby was born.. Giving birth is a natural process. Most women are now better educated about birth; they know what to expect and what they want. Technology allows us to carefully monitor the condition of mother and baby much more accurately throughout pregnancy and labour so mothers and midwives have fewer surprises. Even the baby’s gender is usually known before it arrives.. The writers and the production team do their utmost to ensure accuracy within each story. The medical or pregnancy story lines are not over-dramatised but shown as accurately as possible while portraying the effects on the whole family and the professionals. The progression of a disease or a birth cannot be shown in real time. So the sequences of events are shortened by interweaving and editing with other plotlines. This allows the programme to show life and birth at the right pace for 1960, and to give plausible portrayals of social and medical history.. Around the time we were filming the second series of CTM, I attended a midwifery conference and was accosted by a midwifery admissions tutor who told me in mock accusation that I was making her life extremely difficult; her midwifery course had 16 places, and that year she had almost 1,000 applicants. She lay the blame squarely at the door of the programme, saying it had caused a surge in applications to study midwifery. . Call the Midwife has provided people with an opportunity to think about the midwifery as a profession and an increase in applications will only add to the already high quality of people wanting to become a midwife. The programme has clearly raised the public awareness of the diversity and significance of role of the midwife.. While television can sometimes paint a slightly misleading picture of any career, it can also help give a flavour of what the job entails. A drama that focuses on midwifery has certainly encouraged people to think about this profession as a career option and demonstrates some of its rewards and challenges.