NHS England’s .  for developing new models of care means the .  is now on trial, with many dangers ahead.. The goodwill towards the vanguards programme is striking. The scale is impressive, with the potential to improve services for up to five million people. The salesmanship of .  England chief executive Simon Stevens has convinced the service that this is the beginning of widespread, patient-centred change, not yet another wave of pilots.. The vanguard areas will join up mental health, primary care, community nursing, hospitals, pharmacy and social care. Nine of the 29 successful bidders are primary and acute care systems, while 14 are multi-specialty community providers (GP practices coming together with hospital specialists, community services, nurses and pharmacists to offer primary and specialist services). It is the remaining six – aiming to enhance health in social care – that provide the most convincing evidence the NHS leadership is thinking about the care system as a whole rather than simply the NHS.. There is a good mix of test sites, with established system leaders such as Northumbria and Salford alongside areas with chronic problems such as Cumbria.. The funding of £200m represents a substantial investment to secure what will be modest changes compared with the scale of the health service. NHS England must resist the temptation to throw more money at the scheme if the programmes are in difficulties, because buying success will not be an option for the rest of the country. The vanguards need to demonstrate they are viable models for reform in a tough financial climate.. The two pressing questions are how can NHS England – and more importantly the rest of the NHS – help the vanguard areas succeed, and how can the successes be replicated across the country?. The programme is attempting a difficult balance; on the one hand it is embracing local experimentation and differentiation, while on the other it will ultimately be judged by the scale and pace with which innovation in vanguard areas becomes established practice. If the rest of the NHS stands around watching while the vanguards get on with it there will be little chance of them triggering something approaching system-wide change in the next three or four years. Ways need to be found to hitch up other areas with the vanguard sites so that they can learn as the work progresses.. There is a vehicle for this. NHS England has promised tailored support for each area on everything from clinical workforce redesign to digital technology and patient empowerment. This offers the opportunity for other NHS staff to simultaneously support the schemes and learn from them, feeding back ideas and lessons to their own areas. This will ensure those following the vanguards will not be coming from a standing start.. NHS England is trying to promote the “learning as we go” approach by pushing the vanguards to publish and analyse outcomes data while the programme is running rather than waiting for some long-winded appraisal with limited value at the end.. The learning will not just be about the specifics of particular models, but about leadership for system-wide cultural change. The NHS has a lamentable record when it comes to spreading innovation; the vanguard programme needs to demonstrate how this inertia can be broken.. Among the potential pitfalls is the risk that so often faces NHS reform – that people will become sidetracked into making the systems work rather than focusing on improving the experience and outcomes for patients. Improving collaboration between hospital and primary care doctors may well feel like a triumph in itself, but if there is not a measurable benefit to patients the effort will have been wasted.. This is a moment of high risk for NHS England. If the vanguard programme does not demonstrate substantial improvements in outcomes, patient experience and value for money then the Forward View will have failed its first and most important test.