Why are some types of cancer so much more common than others? Sometimes it's due to faulty genes inherited from one's parents and sometimes to behaviors like smoking a pack of cigarettes every day. But in most cases, it comes down to something else – stem cells.. This is the intriguing argument made by a pair of researchers from Johns Hopkins University. In a .  published Friday in the journal Science, they found a very high correlation between the differences in risk for 31 kinds of cancer and the frequency with which different types of stem cells made copies of themselves.. "No other environmental or inherited factors are known to be correlated in this way across tumor types," Tomasetti and Vogelstein wrote.. Researchers have long recognized that when cells copy themselves, they sometimes make small errors in the billions of chemical letters that make up their DNA. Many of these mistakes are inconsequential, but others can cause cells to grow out of control. That is the . .. The pair focused on stem cells because of  their outsized influence in the body. Stem cells can grow into many kinds of specialized cells, so if they contain damaged DNA, those mistakes can spread quickly.. The researchers combed through the scientific literature and found studies that described the frequency of stem cell division for 31 different tissue types. Then they used data from the National Cancer Institute's .  database to assess the lifetime cancer risk for each of those tissue types. When they plotted the total number of stem cell divisions against the lifetime cancer risk for each tissue, the result was 31 points clustered pretty tightly along a line.. Overall, the researchers calculated that 65% of the variation in the risk of different types of cancer can be explained by how often stem cells copy themselves.. But for most of the tumor types they analyzed, a cancer diagnosis comes down to little more than "bad luck," they wrote. There's not much that patients can do to prevent these cancers, they added, so doctors should focus on finding them early when they are more susceptible to treatment.