 The need for nurses today to be highly trained, well-educated, critical thinkers is a requirement enabling them to make complex clinical decisions that 50 years ago would almost certainly have been made by doctors..  As the population’s healthcare needs have changed, so too has the scope of practice for nurses and midwives. This has required a change in education and training to ensure that nurses and midwives can take on new and complex roles..  I think the internet is destroying the paternalism that used to be at the heart of healthcare. Patients are now empowered to take control of their own care and voice their health needs and this is changing the patient-provider dynamic in a very positive way..  I think [the internet] presents huge opportunities for nurses to assist patients to self-manage long-term conditions and creates new avenues for peer support..  The internet empowers patients, but it can also confuse them. I don’t believe healthcare has yet realised the benefits that technology can bring..  Research has demonstrated that a well-educated nurse workforce leads to better patient outcomes. Nurses qualifying today may still be in the workforce in 2050. The more educationally able the workforce is, the better it is for patients and communities..  Nurse training is now undergraduate level and leads to a degree on registration. The level of knowledge, the ability to reflect and challenge as well as appreciate the need for our practice to be evidence-based is essential. . One of my biggest concerns is the lack of structured continuing professional development for nurses. Not only is it difficult for nurses to ensure they are always up to date in their practice, we also don’t have a clear, clinical career path supported by relevant education and development. .  I think this is a big problem in nursing. I think more structured support in terms of study time, funding for continuing education and designated training posts is key to the development of the nursing profession..  What we need are some career pathways that span both academia and clinical practice for those keen on an academic career. The challenge is for .  trusts to ensure that clinical roles develop alongside the academic element..  Social media can be incredibly positive in promoting health and engaging with others about our profession and practice. There are some obvious risks, but with good guidelines and governance they can be managed.. : I have found Twitter to be amazing. It’s how I organised my shadowing day with a senior nurse; it has enabled me to attend conferences and provided me with many more learning opportunities beyond my course. I also love being able to chat with lots of different people who work in health and social care, from chief executives and consultants to students. Twitter’s given me a voice, and being able to use it professionally has given me a lot of confidence..  I think that nursing in the current economic environment is too often seen as a cost rather than having an economic benefit for society. Nurses contribute to the health and wealth of this country and investing in a well-educated, well-supported workforce has measurable benefits..  The main challenge is that there simply aren’t enough of us. Nurses need time to be able to do their jobs effectively, and if nursing teams are understaffed, nursing can turn into firefighting..  The thing I hear most [is nurses wanting to have] the time to care how they would like. [They are] dealing with increasing complexity, both in their patients’/clients’ needs and in the system in which they are working..  I think we face a problem of public perception. A lot of the fallout from the Francis report landed on the nursing profession. I think we have to demonstrate that our move towards a more academic profession has not robbed us of our caring and has definitely not made us too posh to wash..  Remaining present and focused on delivering patient-centred care when there are so many competing demands on the nurse’s time is a major challenge.. With the publication of the Five Year Forward View it seems clear the direction of travel is to get many more nurses out into the community, so I think there will be a lot of opportunities and possibly new roles for nurses outside of an acute hospital setting. I think the use of technology will become more ubiquitous, and hopefully there will be more nurses involved in research as the all-graduate workforce starts moving into the profession..  The future for clinical research nursing is really exciting. We are continuing to grow the number of studies and opportunities for patients to engage in research. The variety of work makes it attractive to a diverse range of nurses who we are able to grow and develop. . : Our population will continue to get older, and people will require skilled, dedicated professionals to meet their health needs. Nursing will have a key role in promoting health and keeping people well as well as supporting them during times of illness. We will be leading teams and working in many different settings, using technologies we currently can’t imagine. .  will change again in the next 50 years, but the fundamentals will be the same. And despite all the challenges it will still be a great profession.