he near ubiquity of the rediscovered second world war slogan “keep calm and carry on” speaks of our age being an anxious one. The NHS has done a brilliant job of keeping calm and carrying on providing outstanding care to patients over the past five years. This is despite 1% funding increases that have lagged behind the growth in demand and are unprecedented in .  history, with its average 4% annual funding growth.. As we approach the general election, the cumulative stress is starting to show in rapidly rising financial deficits, missed performance targets and growing pressure on the quality of patient care. NHS leaders, and the politicians who would lead them, face tough decisions over the coming parliament.. None of the main Westminster parties is promising NHS funding levels to fix these problems. And we must remember that local government has seen real-terms cuts, which have hit social care with a resulting knock-on impact on the NHS.. Evidence of growing pressure is clear: in Monitor’s latest data on foundation trust deficits, as well as recent studies by the .  Foundation and the Nuffield Trust, and the Kings Fund quarterly monitoring report. NHS providers have been resilient and delivered well, but cracks are appearing rapidly that should warn us of real danger. We need to act before these become stress fractures that undermine the structural integrity of the NHS and threaten its deserved reputation for providing outstanding care.. The new government on 8 May will face two priorities, which may appear contradictory but actually aren’t: to stabilise the NHS but also to transform it. . There will be an immediate problem: a significant gap between the 2015-16 NHS budget and expected demand. Provider deficits are likely to grow significantly and the key NHS constitutional performance targets are unlikely to be achievable. The first goal of any incoming government must therefore be to address this issue and safeguard patient care. . There are three broad solutions: pretend the problem doesn’t exist and carry on asking NHS providers to deliver the impossible; add more money; or if that is not possible, come to an honest, realistic view of what care, access and targets are deliverable for the money available. . Honesty and realism must be the order of the day. NHS providers tell us they are no longer prepared to collude with the pretence that they can deliver the NHS constitutional performance targets, safe care and financial balance on the current NHS budget. Transferring ever more risk to NHS providers obeys the law of diminishing returns and we have now reached the end of the line.. NHS providers recognise they have to deliver ever greater efficiency while sustaining quality, but this can no longer be done by asking for 4% annual savings and hoping for the best. We need a co-designed realistic plan that recognises the needs of all providers: those struggling with the pressures of block contracts and different payment approaches as well as those paid through the tariff. Stabilisation must also mean a realistic view of what can be delivered for 2016-17 and 2017-18 for the money available.. But stabilisation is not enough. The NHS needs to transform. Stabilisation must come first, as trying to transform in a highly unstable system will fail. But pouring all our money and energy into just stabilising an increasingly broken model is equally dangerous.. NHS England’s Five-Year Forward View set out a widely admired vision: better integration of services; new models of care; shifting services closer to home; getting serious on prevention; and properly addressing the demand/financial gap.. Honesty and realism is also needed as we work out how to support those who have to deliver this vision on the ground. Expressed simply, NHS providers have to carry on delivering excellent patient care – much more difficult as the finance/demand gap grows. They have to realise the lion’s share of £22bn efficiency gains/savings: secondary care represents £65bn of the £110bn NHS budget. And they have to lead transformation not only within their own organisation but co-lead it across their local health and social care economy. All three tasks are vital. But, on current trajectory, the vast majority of trusts and foundation trusts will be struggling to keep afloat.. So the second question for politicians is how they enable, support and facilitate the NHS frontline to deliver this transformation. We need honesty and realism about how much support will be needed, how we better balance operational delivery and strategic change, and how quickly and consistently transformation can be delivered. . I share the Five Year Forward View’s optimism that this can all be done. But we need our politicians to set realistic expectations and buy the NHS the time it needs to turn a promising vision into hard reality on the ground.