y alarm goes off between 5 and 5.30am. This quiet time in the morning allows me to go through emails with a cup of tea before getting the children up at 6.30am. Then it’s the usual chaos of ironing shirts and looking for trainers. I leave the house just after 7am and it takes just under an hour to get to work by train and tube.. My role at .  is fairly unique: whereas many NHS hospitals have a number of modern matrons who look after different departments, the clinic has only one matron.. My role is that of a very traditional matron – I am responsible for the care and safety of all the patients who use the hospital, either as an inpatient or outpatient facility. I am also on the clinic’s executive board. This is important as I act as a patient advocate, so I always need to be aware of and understand the patients, as well as what is going on at ward level. These decisions have an impact on the end-to-end patient experience – so you have to get it right.. The first thing I do when I get to work is sit down with my personal assistant and the senior nurse, who will provide an update from the night. I have been at the London Clinic for two-and-a-half years and can honestly say no two days are the same. Staying hands-on means I truly understand what makes a patient feel frustrated or anxious, and being visible on the wards is important in supporting all our staff.. I am responsible for 750 members of clinical staff and we also take on a number of student nurses each year at different stages of their training. I underwent traditional nurse training before going on to do my degree, so I understand the benefits and pitfalls of both types of training. . Today, many students come to us having had hardly any interaction with patients. Giving them the opportunity to really listen to their patients in order to make good assessments is a priority as patients can often be anxious, angry or terrified. It sounds basic but in our complex environment, where we are using new technologies or techniques, communicating and understanding the needs of our patients are essential.. I rarely take a lunch break; I’ll often throw a salad together at home and eat while I check my emails. My afternoon is often filled with clinical governance or quality meetings. I still lecture, which keeps me active, and I participate fully on our healthcare assistant training days. I also spend a lot of time speaking with consultants, working out how best to support their patients. It is a wonderful feeling when they say they choose to bring their patients to the clinic because of the nursing care. . I try to turn my computer off between 6.30 and 7pm and head home to Bromley where I cook dinner for my children, which I love doing; it’s our family time when we catch up about our days.. I never aspired to be a director of nursing or a matron as I didn’t want to lose the clinical side of nursing. I am so fortunate that the role of matron here allows me to remain hands-on, which is why remaining matron is so important. It is a quintessentially British title, and one which patients find reassuring and comforting in the modern, fast-changing world of healthcare.