aringey has historically been an area with one of the highest teenage pregnancy rates in the country. For a time between 2010 and 2011, Haringey did have the highest teenage pregnancy rate in the country – until the 2011 census meant that figures were retrospectively revised down. When news broke that teenage pregnancies in the UK had fallen to their lowest level since records began, in Haringey we learned that since 2009 the number of teenagers getting pregnant has more than halved. . Data from the Office for National Statistics showed that between 2012 and 2013, the. , teenage pregnancies in Haringey dropped by 37%, falling faster than both the London and national averages. .  contributes to and is a cause of social disadvantage. Having a child in adolescence can inhibit performance in school, which in turn can limit teenage parents’ future job prospects and earning potential. Likewise, young people who do less well in education are more likely to be economically and socially excluded and, in turn, more likely to become pregnant while young.. Following the release of the startling 2010 figures, in Haringey the issue of teenage pregnancy was prioritised at the highest level. Driven by the local health and wellbeing board, a refreshed plan to coordinate effort to bring the rate down was produced. . Reducing teenage pregnancy rates is a complex matter that relies on a long-term and consistent approach. It involves improving sexual and relationship advice and increasing access to contraception, so that fewer young people engage in risky sexual behaviour. But it also requires raising young people’s aspirations and educational attainment, so that more of them choose to postpone parenthood until later in life.. It is no coincidence that in Haringey the reduction took place at a time when performance in schools increased. Between 2010 and 2014 Haringey saw the second highest improvement in GCSE results of any local authority. In 2014, .  (five A*–C grades including English and maths), than in 2010. This equates to much more than a rise up the league tables for the local authority; it means improved life chances and opportunities for young people and consequently less young people facing circumstances that often lead to teenage pregnancies. . Another key factor in our approach has been ensuring that young people and the wider community are involved in the design of materials which promote local contraception and sexual health services. . A good example of this can be seen in the creation of a new, . , which includes information and advice on sexual health and teenage lifestyle choices. This has currently been downloaded by more than 500 young people in Haringey.. Similarly, through our work with local schools, we have also developed a series of . , which promote services such as the London-wide .  that provides holders with access to free condoms and advice at a variety of locations across the capital. More than 5,000 young people in Haringey have registered for a card. . But it’s not just young people who need to be engaged. It’s also vital that parents and professionals feel equipped to have open and honest conversations with teenagers about sex. In Haringey we’ve run workshops and training courses that enable adults to have these types of discussions comfortably. Crucially the messages which we encourage them to focus on are consistent with those that are also directed at young people. . Linda, a foster carer who participated in a workshop, told us: “I am much more confident now. I am a good source of information and advice for my children and hopefully this will prevent them from being led by their peers or remaining in the dark about important issues as they mature.” . Although a great deal of work goes into preventing teenage pregnancies, it’s also vital that first-time teenage mothers are properly supported. The Family Nurse Partnership in Haringey is a dedicated service for teenage parents that works with first time mothers from pregnancy, until their child is two years old. Their work includes sex and relationship advice, but also a focus on practical issues such as early booking with a midwife and help looking after a baby. . The reductions in teenage pregnancy in Haringey, as indeed across the rest of the country, cannot be attributed to a single, silver bullet intervention, but rather the culmination of a well-thought out and collaboratively produced prevention strategy. . There are dos and don’ts within this: do use data to monitor progress and refine performance for instance; and don’t design services for people, but with them. But the overarching lesson we’ve learned locally is to not expect quick fixes, but to prioritise the issue and maintain enthusiasm in tackling it. 