n less than three weeks nearly 100 small yet essential pharmacies across the country will lose their viability top-up payment from .  England. Yet the majority of owners, like me, are still stuck in negotiations with local area teams. We have no clarity on future funding. Our patients and staff are angry, anxious and confused.. The essential small pharmacy (ESP) scheme, which will end on 31 March, provides modest support for pharmacies serving isolated communities. The services the pharmacies provide are essential to these communities. Without this funding the pharmacies would not be economically viable, as they dispense low volumes of NHS prescriptions. . Manor Pharmacy, which I have owned for more than 10 years, is the only pharmacy in Elstree Village. It is a social asset at the heart of the community. People come to collect or buy medicines but also to get help managing and even preventing long-term conditions such as diabetes. They can also get advice on making lifestyle changes, such as giving up smoking.. We don’t just dispense medicines, we provide a package of care: helping people get the most from their medicines, spotting problems or side effects the GP may be unaware of and directing people to the most appropriate care.. The demand for these services won’t disappear if Manor Pharmacy closes. It will spill over into local GP surgeries and nearby A&E departments, including the struggling Watford general hospital.. Minor ailments such as coughs and colds account for at least a fifth of GP appointments. In the absence of a local pharmacy, this figure can only rise, putting yet more pressure on local practices and extending waiting times for patients..  minister Jane Ellison has suggested that the role of essential small pharmacies could be replaced by internet pharmacies or deliveries from other pharmacies. This is nonsense.. Last week one of our regulars, an elderly lady with heart failure, among other critical health issues, was first hospitalised and then sent home with no medication. As a local pharmacy we know the patient and her GP, so we were able to arrange an urgent prescription, dispense it, deliver it that evening and ensure the patient knew when and how to take her medication. No internet pharmacy could have done that. We averted a crisis for the patient, provided reassurance for her family and probably prevented an expensive hospital readmission for the NHS.. Bricks and mortar pharmacies are responsive to the needs of both individuals and the local community. They offer highly personalised care. They provide a space for individuals to develop networks of trust and mutual support, particularly for older, often vulnerable people who live alone. You can’t value a community pharmacy soley based on its prescription numbers. Many essential pharmacies are located in deprived communities that already suffer the so-called inverse care law, which states that those who need health and social care most actually receive the least. These people may not be registered with a GP or in touch with other mainstream health services. . So what’s the solution? NHS England must consider and confirm its position on each pharmacy without further delay to minimise the impact on patients. If you consider the bigger picture, any threat of removing this modest funding runs counter to the frequent endorsements of pharmacy we hear from the NHS. The Five Year Forward View identifies and supports community pharmacy and recognises its role in assuring the future of the NHS. Why take away this local lifeline? “Essential” small pharmacies are just that.