ntegration is the buzzword of choice in health and social care. Supported by the main political parties and bolstered by the Better Care Fund, the case for integration was given added urgency after the winter difficulties in the NHS. Lack of available social care packages was partly responsible for keeping older people in hospital longer than they needed to be, reducing the number of available beds and having a knock-on effect on . .. It is something that both the health secretary and his shadow have spoken about at length. Jeremy Hunt . : “The point of the NHS is to make sure everyone gets truly personal care. [...] As a first step that needs the integration of the health and social care systems.” Labour’s Andy Burnham, meanwhile, . : “The time has come for [Labour] to complete Nye Bevan’s vision and bring social care into the NHS.”. With the election fast approaching, where is integration policy going, and what will the impact be on the health and social care sectors? What is good practice surrounding the integration of services? Is there a difference between integration at the commissioning and at delivery levels? How will integration affect service users? And what role can the housing and voluntary sectors play?. We’ve put together a panel of experts from across the sector to discuss these issues and share expertise. The livechat will be taking place on Thursday 26 March between 12:30 and 2pm. The discussion takes place in the comments section below this article. Taking part is easier than ever: you can create . , or log in using your Twitter or Facebook profiles to comment. Alternatively, you can tweet us .  or email Ruth Hardy, who will post your questions for you.. , head of health and wellbeing, adult social care and health, Liverpool city council. , Social Care Institute for Excellence. , policy and projects officer, from ACEVO’s health policy and consultancy team. , health partnership coordinator, National .  Federation. , chief executive of Age UK Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly, and director of integration at NHS Kernow. , corporate director, services for people, Stockport council.  and . , Stockport council Reablement and Community Home Support Team (Reach). , chief executive of the National Development Team for Inclusion