Occupancy rates for adult critical care beds in NHS hospitals in England .  the highest figure since the data began being published. . Bed occupancy rates of higher than 85% can increase the risk of harm, including hospital-acquired infections like MRSA and Clostridium difficile, research suggests.. There were 4,028 adult critical care beds of which 3,548 were occupied last month. The occupancy rate in January was 87.6%, and in February last year it was 86.5%.. Dr Foster, the healthcare intelligence firm formerly part-owned by the government, .  that when occupancy rates rise above 85% “it can start to affect the quality of care provided to patients and the orderly running of the hospital”. A .  argued that any occupancy rate over 85% risked bed shortages and periodic bed crises. . The latest .  statistics also showed that the number of urgent operations cancelled last month was up by more than 50% on the same period last year, from 244 to 375, although it was down on January this year (396).. There was better news in terms of paediatric critical care beds, which had an occupancy rate of 75.9%, the lowest since September 2014 and lower than the same period last year. The occupancy rate for neo-natal critical care beds was 71.6%, similar to recent months but slightly higher than February last year.. Dr Mark Porter, chair of the British Medical Association council, said: “This is the result a gradual rundown of beds, despite a rise in demand. High occupancy rates are a real concern because they leave little or no spare capacity to deal with a spike in demand for critical care, leaving the most seriously ill patients at risk.. “Critical care facilities are essential for the most interventionist care delivered to the sickest patients. Professional recommendation would be that, to maintain availability for such patients and the safety of care when there, bed occupancy rates should be no more than 70%. A higher figure indicates a service under too much pressure.”.  showed that 89.6% of patients at hospital A&E departments were seen within four hours, missing the 95% target for the 88th week in a row. . The government prefers to measure the target against all emergency departments, not just those in hospitals. By that measure, 93.2% of patients were treated within four hours last week, making it the 25th week in a row that the target has been missed.