y journey to a career in cancer research started at a small school in the far north-west corner of the US. It was in my introduction to biology class where I discovered my love for experimental biology. Using cotton buds and agar plates, I swabbed fruit for bacteria before and after rinsing with water to determine if this would impact on its cleanliness (turns out it does, so don’t forget to wash!). I did a graduate degree in biomedical sciences where I solidified my passion for investigating the genetics of human cancer. I am now part of a research team at the Institute of .  Research whose ultimate goal is to introduce new treatments, specifically into the paediatric clinic, to help children suffering from cancer.. One of my main focuses is addressing questions such as how tumour cells arise and how they spread throughout the body. I then aim to exploit this information to discover ways to defeat these cancer cells. To accomplish this, I need to develop and maintain a variety of partnerships. My days therefore frequently contain meetings with members of my direct team, scientific collaborators, clinicians or pharmaceutical companies from all over the world. These meetings serve to discuss which systems to use with which novel drugs to determine if these new compounds have the ability to overcome cancer. It is my job to then work with my team members to design, execute, and analyse the data from these experiments. The aim is to provide sufficient data to support the entry of a new drug into the clinical setting. . In a career as a cancer researcher I am frequently asked if we are going to find a cure. This is a hard question to answer, as cancer is not a singular entity, but rather a very complex genetic disease where each individual cancer can vary from the next. As opposed to a singular cure, it is my goal to investigate the biology of cancer, and use this understanding to develop a variety of strategies necessary to treat it. . With such ambitious goals it is not always easy to see the immediate results of our work. I learned early on, however, that what I do isn’t always about the results of an experiment. As a third-year graduate student, I was asked to give a talk at the annual fundraising event for the non-profit organisation that funded my research, . . I was very nervous about speaking to the crowd of 600 people, but I found that talking about why I do what I do was easy and very rewarding. It turned out, in that one five-minute talk, I was able to help a daughter understand her late mother’s disease, initiate a mentorship with a young girl interested in a career in science, and help raise a lot of money by conveying to my audience the significance of their donations. Since that moment, I have understood that the direct impact of cancer research needn’t just be about performing an experiment, it can also be about using our scientific knowledge to inspire those around us. I am lucky to work in an establishment that supports my career development in all areas, including this one. I have had the opportunity to present, and win, a debate on how my area of biological research is .  and to participate in a BBC Panorama documentary called Can you cure my cancer?. These experiences have helped in visualising the impact of my job as a cancer researcher. It is this aspect of my job that I love the most.. The two simple reasons I pursued a career in cancer research were my passion for understanding the hows and whys of the functioning of the human body, and my quest to use this understanding to benefit people. As a blossoming biologist, I asked whether or not washing your fruit would prevent you from ingesting unwanted bacteria, and now, with a career in cancer research, I get to ask whether or not a novel drug may benefit the life of a child. It is for this reason that I cannot think of a better, or more rewarding, profession!