, . : “If we go back to the successful integrations that have happened in the past, then the starting point was that the partner organisations wanted to achieve improved outcomes and services in ways that they could not achieve on their own. A byproduct of that might well be financial savings – but if savings are the starting point, then that risks losing the fundamental objective of working together, which should be better services and outcomes for people.”. : “I’ve been working in community care since 1990. I’ve yet to see a research report on successful integration that doesn’t highlight the importance of effective interpersonal relationships and a shared will to make a difference as the key planks of integrated care and partnership working. It’s often nothing more complicated than that; more about people and relational transformation than endless structural reforms and system tweaking.”. : “The key for our programme in Cornwall is behavioural change. If you can get teams from different providers to share vision and value the relationships they have with people and each other over and above adherence to a task or transaction, the results are integration by default.”.  “I think integration has been identified as a way to save money in our cash-strapped times. I think undoubtedly there are efficiencies through providing services in an integrated way, however the evidence seems to point to the biggest benefits being linked to service user experience, rather than always real cash benefits.”. : “There are clearly issues about free at point of access healthcare and charged-for social care – but sadly I think those distinctions are getting increasingly blurred anyway. For me, the two key questions about full health and social care integration (if it happens) are: (1) what model of accountability will apply – the NHS’s or local government’s, and (2) the cultural impact on service change and behaviour from the two coming together.”.  “We already see the tussles that occur at local level around continuing care assessments and ongoing debates about whether dementia is a healthcare issue as a long-term condition or a social care issue. Charging for healthcare will fundamentally undermine the principle of health equity that is one of the cornerstones of the NHS. It will impact disproportionately on people already facing the greatest health inequality and those living with (sometimes multiple) long-term conditions . There are a lot of outstanding “wicked” issues that need unravelling and the current social care funding reforms do not even begin to address these.”. : “Charging and choice are two factors that have a real impact on day-to-day decision making in our current systems. And too often they are seen as a reason to not proceed. Given the huge cuts to funding for local authorities, and the reliance on income, we have to find a way through this that maximises the speed of delivering a new range of person-centred pathways.”. “Definitely. What both sectors have in common is the ability to engage with an individual on the level of that person’s day-to-day reality. In particular, the voluntary sector has a track record of supporting society’s most vulnerable and hard-to-reach people and developing a holistic understanding of that person’s circumstances.”.  “In social housing, we are there in communities as landlords 24 hours a day and have much more doorstep contact with people than many health and social care professionals. Failing to harness the reach and assets that the third sector bring to the integration agenda is a real mistake.”. : “If services are about improving people’s lives then it means we have to think about employment, transport, leisure and many other areas. For me, one of the big risks about the talk of health and social care integration is that while removing or reducing boundaries between those two elements of services, then it risks building new boundaries between health/social care and those wider life elements. This will particularly be the case if integration occurs within the NHS and local government’s responsibility for economic regeneration, housing, leisure and so on is not tied in somehow.”.  “Our experience is that you start from the individual, make their goals pivotal and shape the team around them rather than start with organisational change or a re-determined locality team.”. : “Creating trust between partners and building effective personal relationships. Making sure that people who attend meetings are able to commit (constant changes of personnel disrupt this) and are empowered to take decisions so that things are not endlessly passed up the line. Apply a test and learn culture and bring people using services, families, carers and local voluntary and community sectors into the room. Adopt a “can do” mentality and don’t let bureaucracy stifle innovation.”. : “Two things from me. (1) Co-location. People work better together when they are working alongside one another. (2) Open and public accountability back to the people using services. It’s a lot easier to justify decisions that are primarily about the interests of your own organisation, rather than the whole service system, and person using services if you are taking them behind the closed doors of your own internal management systems.”.  “Our discussions with people around the country suggest that there’s no substitute for multi-disciplinary teams spending time together, formally and informally, talking about how we’re trying to help people with care and support needs.”