Let’s talk menopause. What I mean is, let’s get to the nitty-gritty and admit that we as professionals are failing women – 13 million of them. That’s the estimated number of women currently peri- or post-menopausal in the UK, equal to one-third of the entire female population. . , the permanent cessation of menstruation and reproductive capability, ultimately affects every woman fortunate to live long enough. If this is the case, why should we care? Surely it’s just a rite of passage, an inevitable consequence of growing older. Shouldn’t women be grateful they have reached this milestone and embrace their post-menopausal zest?. Well, here’s the thing. Natural (for some) it may be; plain sailing for all it is not. For younger women who are catapulted into instant menopause by way of surgery or medical treatment, or who find themselves – as early as in their teenage years – with a diagnosis of primary ovarian insufficiency (POI), the consequences can be devastating. . Menopausal symptoms are primarily a result of oestrogen deficiency; in the peri-menopause, which can commence several years earlier, fluctuating hormone levels are largely to blame. One in four women will experience debilitating symptoms that can last up to 15 years. According to . , 10% of women seriously consider giving up work as a result. Employers, in addition to health professionals, are also guilty of failing to provide support, and the NHS should take note: females make up 77% of their workforce, with an average age of 43. . Lost among the myriad acute illnesses and chronic diseases, post-reproductive health does not garner much attention in medical school or post-registration training. But we are doing not only our patients a disservice, but also ourselves. In addition to the characteristic hot flush, many related symptoms occur at this time: nausea, joint aches, an increase in allergies, memory loss and palpitations, to name but a few. The lack of awareness regarding menopausal symptomology results in needless anxiety for patients and a feeling of helplessness in their doctors. An additional challenge is the impact menopause has on long-term conditions such as diabetes, an area that is vastly under-researched. . Over the years, I have encountered numerous cases that demonstrate the need for increased competence in the management of menopause within both primary and secondary care. A 53-year-old patient suffering intractable hot flushes and mood swings was denied hormone replacement therapy by an ill-informed GP, because her aunt had developed breast cancer in her late 50s. A 34-year-old nurse in surgical menopause was deemed a “hypochondriac” when a 2mg oestradiol tablet did not control her symptoms. A 28-year-old woman treated for breast cancer – in medical menopause – was “cured” of her malignancy, but left with little quality of life. Misinformation and outdated ideas are widespread.. Last year the British Menopause Society launched its . . Its aim is to “to drive forward an urgently needed boost to the education of women and their carers about the specific needs of women during the menopause and in the following decades”. . And in 2013 Menopause UK was formed as a policy network to advocate for better care for women. The .  campaign has sprung from this. However, I also have a vested interest. In 2013, at the age of 35, I entered surgical menopause myself and witnessed this fall-out first hand. Not one to admit defeat, I decided to tackle the system head on and joined forces with Natasha North, convenor of Menopause UK, a fellow health professional propelled into hormonal upheaval ahead of her time.. One of the grassroot campaigns for NHS Change Day 2015, the aim of #changethechange is simple: get people talking about menopause, and get the .  to recognise post-reproductive health as a priority, not an afterthought.. We are asking NHS professionals to take three actions to improve the way menopause care is planned, funded and delivered:.  .  Get together: join a new online forum.  .  Get the facts: share accurate, up-to-date information.  .  Get menopause on the agenda: talk. Menopause isn’t a disease, yet it can cause untold misery while simultaneously increasing the risk of osteoporosis and heart disease.. Thirteen million women deserve better.. Let’s talk menopause. . Let’s change the change. 