The .  should train more staff rather than spending around £2.5bn a year on locum doctors and agency nurses, a thinktank has suggested.. Civitas, a cross-party thinktank, said a larger pool of dependable permanent staff would also enhance workforce stability and patient safety.. The subsequent increase in competition for jobs would also help fill less desirable roles such as those in A&E departments and general practices.. The report from Civitas said that agency nurses cost in the region of £24 to £29 an hour, equivalent to between £47,000 and £56,000 a year, while the salary for an NHS band 5 nurse is between £21,478 and £27,901.. The typical charge for a consultant from an agency is £1,760 a day, equivalent to a pro-rata salary of £459,000.. Civitas reported that, since the salary of an NHS consultant is between £75,249 and £101,451, four consultants could be employed by the NHS for the price of one agency staff member.. The report said that as well as the financial drain of using non-permanent workers, it is also a safety issue if there are major difficulties with finding enough contracted staff.. Edmund Stubbs, a healthcare researcher for Civitas, said: “It is evident that a lack of staff – or at least of staff willing to enter some specialities – is currently leading to excessive spending on agency staff, locums and overseas recruitment, exhausting financial resources that could be better used in training and employing full-time staff.. “Some competition for medical placements and even the risk of unemployment within the sector might, in fact, prove advantageous. If numbers training for medical careers were to be substantially increased, personnel might be encouraged to embark on careers in specialities such as A&E which are currently experiencing difficulty in recruiting and retaining staff.. “Competition might also be engendered between staff to obtain positions in currently unpopular or remote regions. More locum and agency staff would also want to work on a permanent basis (giving them increased job security) which would be far more cost-efficient for the NHS.. “At present, staff shortages in less desirable specialities are met by employing overseas-trained, locum and agency staff at great expense and with a possible risk of reduced care quality and patient safety. A larger dependable permanent staff pool would result in enhanced workforce stability and patient safety.”. Nurses and midwives trained abroad make up around 10% of the total workforce, according to the report.. Previous research has suggested up to four-fifths of new nurses hired in the 12 months to last September were from overseas, as hospital trusts in England filled a shortfall in registered nurses with 5,778 foreign staff, according to an investigation by the Health Service Journal.. Civitas said around 26% of NHS doctors are foreign nationals.. The issue of NHS staff is an important one for the coming general election, with Labour and the Tories both . .