There’s no denying that I love my job. But in recent years it has become plagued by increasing, unmanageable workloads and huge administrative demands, which often makes me question why I am still doing it. . I did try to leave nursing once, but I came back after I faced the realisation that no other job could give me the satisfaction of making a difference to people’s lives that this one did. It’s like an addiction, which is why more than 20 years on, I’m still working as a clinical nurse specialist, having paid witness to a multitude of .  reforms.. It’s easy to list what I do. Men with prostate cancer are referred to me right from diagnosis, and I am there to support and counsel them through their illness and treatment. I prescribe treatment, request imaging and tests, monitor their progress in nurse-led clinics, refer them to other specialities, perform physical examinations, break bad news and monitor them every step of the way. On top of this, I also run patient education seminars, write leaflets and co-run a support group. . What is less easy is defining the impact that my role has. I am passionate about the nursing role but have seen over the past 20 years that its worth is not always appreciated. As we have taken on more roles within the patient pathway, somehow the unique nursing role has become less valued. Excellent nursing is often a hidden thing. It may take place in private. It can be an intimate exchange. It doesn’t always show up in spreadsheets about activity. But it is a skill, it’s what patients remember and value, and it is vital.. Prostate Cancer UK recently published . , which reflected many of the challenges I face. It revealed that prostate cancer specialist nurses are taking on too many roles, resulting in unmanageable caseloads. They are working unpaid hours and are leaving aspects of care undone – one of the most common being a relatively new initiative: the Holistic Needs Assessment. To implement this meaningfully requires resources, but with many clinical nurse specialists reporting that they receive no or little administrative support, this is near-impossible. . This week I have assessed, diagnosed and treated. I have supported men in coming to terms with a diagnosis or a terminal condition, and I have held the hand of a crying man as he told me his deepest fears. But I have also spent many hours printing invitations and stuffing envelopes to invite men to a health and wellbeing event, printing and faxing referrals and making appointments. If we truly value the nursing role, we have to provide support to allow them to do it. . Perhaps even more importantly, the report revealed a prostate cancer nursing workforce which could become non-existent within the next 10 years. Some nurses, like me, will be leaving due to retirement, but my guess is that others will be enticed into other nursing roles where there more opportunities for progression and development. . Prostate cancer is on course to become the most common cancer overall by 2030. With no clear plans to train up a new workforce, however, the prostate cancer specialist nurse is facing extinction at a time when they will be needed most of all. So, as dedicated urology wards disappear, we need to think quickly about development posts and succession planning before it is too late.. I love my job and am privileged to share the journey of the men and their families that I work with and care for, but like any job it has its frustrations. I am pleased that finally these frustrations have been evidenced and acknowledged. I hope now we can talk about them in a constructive way. With the right support we can tackle them head-on to improve patient care.