veryone working in mental health will welcome the new NHS waiting times for talking therapies. They will require the .  to provide face-to-face therapy to 75% of patients within six weeks and 95% of patients within 18 weeks. I embrace these targets because they make an important statement about mental health and its equal status with physical health.. But underlying any waiting times target approach is the assumption that expanding access is difficult and expensive. We need to be a lot more ambitious about treating people with common mental illnesses. We need to look not at the cost of treating people, but the cost of not treating them. We also need to be aware that the new targets are not far off what the NHS has been doing already. According to the NHS, .  of referral and 89% had one within 90 days. . Would you want to wait that long if you were depressed? It is not good for individuals, their families or wider society.. NHS treatment has to be rationed and, sadly, there is not enough healthcare to go round. Treatment is expensive and it is a precarious balancing act trying to expand access in one area because this affects other areas with their own fierce and justified need.. But this may be the wrong way of looking at this particular problem. It was an economic argument that led to the launch in 2007 of . , the NHS’s umbrella term for face-to-face therapy services, and more recent estimates have put the total cost of mental ill health to society at over £100bn.. Similarly, there is a strong economic argument for treating people with common mental illnesses immediately. This is because making them wait leads to costs, quite apart from any treatment they might ultimately receive. They impose a background cost on the NHS by, for example, visiting their GP more frequently. . Academics at the University of Sheffield have estimated these costs. Their figures show, for example, that a severely depressed person costs the NHS £24 a month more than someone with moderate depression. Even someone with mild depression costs the health service over £22 more than someone with no mental illness. Calculating the total cost of waiting for the 700,000-plus patients that entered treatment in 2013-14 would be tricky. There is no record of patients by severity band and only about half would have recovered. But we can be fairly certain the costs would run into the millions.. Not only should we treat people earlier – we can. Things have changed in the world of therapy. Human connection, the basis of psychological healing, is in much more abundant supply in the era of the internet. Accredited psychotherapists deliver internet-enabled Cognitive Behavioural Therapy via computer, smartphone or tablet using online, text-based conversations. . This approach is proven to work as well, if not better, than face-to-face therapy – 52% of our patients achieve recovery compared to the average across Iapt therapies of 46%. We think this is partly explained by the disinhibiting factor of communicating through writing, rather than having to speak to a therapist face-to-face, which can be offputting for many people.. Access to treatment is fast. Once you leave your GP, you can go home and log on straight away. A therapist is then assigned – usually immediately but always within 48 hours – and you can arrange a first session at your earliest convenience. . We’re already commissioned in 26 CCG [Clinical Commissioning Group] and are rapidly heading towards treating 1,000 NHS patients per month.. At the moment, the goal is for Iapt services to treat just 15% of people with common mental illnesses. That means a vast number of people with untreated illness exerting enormous background costs on the NHS. . Technology enables us to radically improve access in a way traditional delivery methods do not. We can do it, so let’s get on with it. Let’s stop wasting resources by keeping people waiting and leaving them to suffer because we tell ourselves it is too difficult to expand access – it isn’t. It’s within reach to make waiting times for mental health redundant.