When questioning whether the public or private sector is leading the way in adopting the internet of things (IoT), experts are unanimous in their stance: it’s the private sector.. The reason for this is slightly more contested. Perhaps unsurprisingly, lack of financial investment is consistently touted. .  that £40m will be set aside for research and development around the internet of things, which many people say is too little. “The truth is, that’s nothing. A venture capital company would provide this kind of funding,” says John Bates, head of industry solutions at Software AG. Instead, he offers, “Osborne should provide tax breaks for early adopters to remove the risk aversion.” . Jon Hook, vice-president of platform and product at Phunware, is encouraged by the pledged investment, but questions how far it will go. “With Gartner, IDC and Cisco predicting figures from £800bn to £1.5tn in net revenue generated by internet of things services, it’s hard to see what £40m will achieve.” . While internet of things investment would likely result in cost savings in the long term, Bates claims that “lack of vision, entrepreneurial thinking and execution” is a barrier to the public sector’s adoption of such technologies. Tim Wilson, former deputy head of ICT for NHS City and Hackney, and current chief information security officer at Optum International, insists that shrinking budgets combined with IT staff cuts mean that “the talent has moved to the private sector to use their knowledge and contacts to develop this IoT technology”.. The public sector is often faced with red tape and the requirement to provide a strong return-on-investment argument, which is challenging in a fairly unproven area. “There’s a real lack of successful IoT use cases in both the public and private sectors, so risk averse public sector officials are not likely to invest in new, unproven IoT technologies,” says Charlie Clark, CEO of Rosslyn Analytics.. It will therefore be left to the private sector tech giants – such as Cisco and Samsung, as well as the venture capital backed startups – to drive innovation and ultimately bid for the public sector technology contracts. . Risk aversion is less of a concern in the private sector where companies are dependent on a competitive edge. That, combined with greater financial investment, and an understanding that both costs and risks can be reduced through the internet of things, keeps the private sector at the forefront of IoT innovation. “Business people see these opportunities and realise they are game-changers, but local authorities don’t think the same way,” says Bates. “The public sector needs to pay better salaries so it can get more visionary IT leaders.” . There may be a lack of awareness of what the IoT can bring to public services.. According to George Rousso, professor of pervasive computing at Birkbeck, University of London, public opinion and reluctance towards the IoT is currently holding back governments and councils from extending its use. “The IoT potentially creates an extremely detailed and suggestive data trail about citizens’ movements in the material – as well as the digital – world, and this data footprint raises deep concerns about intrusions to the life of individuals,” he says.. Public opinion and talent aside, experts caution that old IT infrastructures are, crucially, unable to support IoT systems. “The nation needs to have the correct communications and Wi-Fi infrastructure in place to be able to support millions of sensors within connected devices,” says Mark Morley, director of manufacturing at OpenText. Wilson, too, is concerned that this is a much greater concern in rural areas where “even basic internet infrastructure is missing”..  technology can’t simply be bolted on as an after-thought: it needs to be developed from within.. “Despite the analyst forecast, IoT is not seen as an immediate priority weighed up against existing infrastructure projects,” says Phunware’s Hook. Where huge investment has been poured into the devices – by 2015, research firm Gartner estimates that there will be more things than people on the internet – very little has been afforded to the infrastructure behind it.. In the UK, Milton Keynes, Bristol, Glasgow and Manchester have all been leading the way, rolling out smart city initiatives. Overseas, experts list Germany, Singapore, US, Korea and Taiwan as the IoT pioneers.. In the UK, the most significant IoT headway has been made by the healthcare sector and the military. . “The military have been IoT pioneers under the guise of ‘network-centric warfare’ and ‘the digital battles space’,” says Bates. “Semi-autonomous drones are leading the move towards fully-autonomous swarming battle strategies, and wearable computing is being adopted.”. In healthcare, the NHS has invested millions of pounds into virtually monitoring patients’ health. The telehealth project, an expansion of telemedicine, enables the home monitoring of patients. “Figures provided by the NHS showed that using telehealth reduces mortality by 45%, A&E attendances by 15% and emergency admissions by 20%,” said Alistair Smit, CEO of Blueberry Home Solutions, a company developing IoT solutions for remote hot water and boiler technology for the NHS and other public sector areas. .  Another NHS project has switched three million long-term NHS patients scheduled for regular hospital check-ups to remote monitoring. . Paul Sant, associate dean at the University Campus Milton Keynes, University of Bedfordshire, is heading up the MK Smart project – a big data hub gathering information on smart parking, smart bin collections, and smart watering for gardens. Sant explains how Milton Keynes council is working with the Satellite Applications Catapult to see how high-resolution satellite imagery can be combined with planning application data to help planning officers oversee developments..  “There are clear public service benefits [from the IoT] that can make a real change to citizen’s lives,” says Sant. The public sector just needs to take IoT projects out of the research labs and find the funding to deploy the technology in the real world. .  