You can have your greens and eat them too thanks to this green veggie-heavy shell dish. Toss your whole grain pasta with English peas, crisp Bibb lettuce leaves, parsely, chives, thyme, and shallots for a fresh, springtime take on an Italian favorite. Manchego cheese adds a little bite to this crisp pasta. Bonus: a serving packs 14 grams of protein to keep you feeling satisfied.. In the mood for a rich, buttery pasta dish? Whip up this linguine-based dish that features savory prosciutto and creamy mozzarella instead. The use of fresh cheese and olive oil brings the saturated fat down to just 5 grams. Hearty asparagus adds a green element and plenty of fiber, folate, and vitamins A, C, and E to this tasty recipe.. Add a fresh twist to your pasta with fresh fennel, mint, basil, and sugar snap peas. Nutty hemp seeds add good-for-you omega 3 fats to the pasta, which only comes in at 375 calories per serving. When topped with Parmesan cheese, the refreshing and slightly crunchy dish (thanks, sugar snap peas!) will easily become your new warm weather go-to.. Cilantro, spinach, and zucchini create a hearty yet healthful one-dish pasta meal. The best part? It's only 324 calories per serving, but has 63 mg of calcium and 11 grams of protein. Not a fan of cilantro? Trade it for parsley..  Unsalted butter, extra-virgin olive oil, yellow onion, anchovy fillets, ground turmeric, pearl couscous, low-sodium chicken broth, salt and pepper, zucchini, baby spinach, fresh cilantro. 324. If you want the yummy texture of pasta without all of the processed carbohydrates, this veggie noodle dish is sure to please. Spiralized carrots and zucchini pack in tons of good-for-you vitamins and minerals like beta carotene, fiber, and potassium that traditional pastas normally wouldn't offer. A few ounces of real spaghetti mixed into this dish ensures it's still the satisfying Italian meal you were craving.. Get a taste of the Mediterranean with this salty caper-filled pasta. Artichokes, fire roasted tomatoes, and garlic add even more southern European flavor to this easy-to-make meal (it only takes 25 minutes!). The dish is low in saturated fat and high in calcium and protein, so you know you're filling your body with the good stuff while still enjoying a hearty treat.