Satisfy hungry houseguests with an oven baked spicy two-bite appetizer stuffed with a cream cheese filling of chicken, cilantro, and fresh lime juice and wrapped in hickory-smoked bacon. This quick and easy appetizer, with just a few ingredients and even fewer steps, will make entertaining easy without the hassle of fussing over the oven all day and night. For those who like it hot, swap mini sweet peppers for spicy jalapeños. Need the perfect sipper to pair with these poppers? Look no further than our . . The smoky flavors infused in our favorite Tex-Mex cocktail will meld perfectly with our stuffed peppers. . Take a moment to meet your new favorite appetizer. This twist on the classic spinach dip is sure to please even the most particular guests. Just like classic spinach dip, the recipe mixes together spinach, . , and chives to achieve that cool, onion flavor with a kick. The secret? Sweet Vidalia onions add an unexpected, sweet twist to the creamy, savory dip. Pair with chips or a fresh veggie medley of bell peppers, cucumbers, and radishes and watch guests scoop up every last drop. This appetizer is perfect for a small gathering or the big game and requires little clean up. . Indulgent, fresh, and easy as pie, this summer version of baked Brie won raves in the .  Test Kitchen. Can't find Brie packed in a wooden box? Simply bake the cheese in a small pie plate or baking dish.. Look for beautiful and tasty heirloom tomatoes in a rainbow of colors at your local farmers' market, and keep them at room temperature until you're ready to slice and serve. . Ready in just 15 minutes, this quick appetizer is perfect for last-minute company. When making the sauce in Step 2, whisk in the butter 1 Tbsp. at a time--the key technique in making the sauce velvety.. Here's a cute idea: Hollow out baby pattypan squash and fill with goat pimiento cheese. Can't find pattypans? Pipe the filling on thinly sliced squash rounds, or stuff it into squash blossoms..  .  . For a simple yet impressive starter, arrange a colorful antipasto platter. Roll a log of goat cheese in fresh chopped parsley and set out sliced salami, pickled okra, kalamata olives, and roasted red bell peppers. Serve with assorted crackers and breadsticks. Prepare the platter in advance and pop it out of the fridge at party time.. : . Make appetizer portions of your favorite pork sandwich and top with coleslaw Memphis-style. Like any good barbecue, they’re sure to please a crowd.. This is our new go-to summer dip. Use any legume you like.. Use a mixture of baby tomatoes such as 'Sweet 100,' 'Yellow Pear,' or 'Sun Gold'—all are available at farmers' markets in summer months. This dish uses 3 pints of tomatoes, but feel free to halve the recipe..  . Readers rave about how easy it is to prepare this tasty three-ingredient dip. Chipotle peppers in adobe sauce add a kick to the ranch and sour cream mixture. Serve with potato chips and assorted raw veggies.. : . Cantaloupe or honeydew adds refreshing fruity flavor to these meat-and-cheese skewers that are perfect for a hot day. They’re easy to make in advance and pull out of the fridge right before party time..  . If you've never tried homemade ricotta, then you're in for a tasty surprise. This will change the way you think about the store-bought kind. Be sure to stir only when indicated in the recipe.. 
                  .  . : . Wasabi peas add color and spice to this simple and quick five-ingredient mix. The ingredients also hold up well in the heat if you want to serve outdoors.. Savory, sweet, and tangy, this bright dip is great for dunking anything from breadsticks to crudités. We especially love it with an assortment of grilled peppers and zucchini.. : . Full of Southern flair, these are sure to rival even the best hot wings. Thyme, oregano, cumin, and paprika coat these chicken pieces with flavor bettered only by dipping in a tangy . .. : . This creamy dip is sure to garner recipe requests at your next party. Readers tell us they love the pairing of pungent blue cheese and shrimp. Even those who don’t like blue cheese should try dipping crackers or veggies in this dip..  . Baked Bean Crostinis are a fun twist on an old stand-by. Feel free to load up on toppings; we love pickled jalapeo, bacon, and queso fresco..  .   . Make this spicy Mexican dip your go-to dip for tailgate parties. Just layer cream cheese, black bean dip and shredded cheese and top with your choice of onions, olives, and tomatoes.. : . Find out for yourself why this salty spread earned especially rave reviews in our Test Kitchen. Htipiti makes a great starter and pairs beautifully with the roasted lamb. Serve with crostini or pita chips, and garnish with dried crushed red pepper and olive oil. You can also process the mixture longer for a sauce-like consistency..   . This zesty dip proves you can stay on your diet and still enjoy the party. Blend seven ingredients in a food processor (or blender), chill for one hour, and you’ve got a cool creamy party dip. Serve with zucchini and squash slices.. : . These zesty marinated shrimp taste perfect with a light char off the grill. Serve on small skewers for an easy-to-eat presentation..  . These festive party pick-ups get a quick start with refrigerated cheese tortellini. If you’re short on time, simply toss the ingredients together in a pretty bowl and set out some forks..   . The ultimate finger food, spareribs can serve equally well as an appetizer as a main dish. Honey and soy sauce coat these ribs to give them upscale, Asian flavor.. : . Serve these bite-size treats straight off the grill. Salty bacon is the perfect finish to the marinated, meaty scallops. Dip in .  for an extra layer of flavor.. : . A refreshing vinegar mixture pickles shrimp and onions in a zesty coating. Prepare this appetizer in advance, and simply pour in a festive dish to serve.