Stone fruits of all sorts jumble the farm stands each summer, none more diverse than the puckery-sweet but curiously neglected . . The plum ranges from inky purple to burnished gold in color. Its flesh may be anything from astringent to syrupy sweet—sometimes in the same single fruit—and its diversity makes it as versatile as, say, the apple. Yet we Americans mostly like our plums fresh and don’t cook them as often as we should. Check out these plum recipes to help you add the glorious plum to your go-to ingredient list this summer.. The ideal summer dessert is fresh, juicy, not overly sweet, and not overly complicated, which is why this end-of-season treat features only six ingredients. Skip turning on the oven by cooking the plums just on the stove. The plums cook just long enough to often slightly and release their juices; use a knife and fork to dive in. Butter, honey, and orange juice mixed with juice from the peaches creates a light syrup that is simply divine. Sub any toasted nut or seed for the granola. This recipe serves four people, and each portion of three peach halves topped with yogurt and the peach syrup contains just 25g of added sugar, 184 calories, and 6.6g of fat.. Perfect for any summer cocktail hour, this Bellini remix is full of delicious, and tingly, flavor.. Kickback and unwind with a glassful of this quencher. We guarantee it will satisfy your craving—even if you didn’t know you were having one.. Almost any slightly firm plum will work in this lovely cake. In fact, we prefer a mix of black, red, and yellow fruit for contrasting flavor and color.. As gorgeous as it is delicious, this salad will become a summer staple. Serve it with grilled chicken, pork, steaks, or seafood. Look for the Mirabelle or other golden-fleshed plums.. Asian spices give this barbecue sauce a complex flavor, which enhances the sweet-tart flavor of the plums. Once it’s cooked, set aside 2-1/2 cups sauce to serve with the pork, and use remaining to baste as it cooks.. Tender and buttery, this cobbler’s crust is a nice foil for the intense filling. You can bake in any 2-quart baking dish, from round to rectangular. For a special treat (and an extra 55 calories and half a gram of saturated fat), top with a small scoop of vanilla low-fat ice cream.. Although complex black plums, with their winey flavor, taste and look spectacular in this refreshing granita, you can use most any variety.. Sweet fig preserves balance the tartness of the plums. Choose red or purple plums with bright, unblemished skin that are firm and plump to the touch.. Honey helps the stone fruit caramelize lusciously on the grill, while crème fraîche adds the perfect tangy counterpoint.. Make-ahead roasted plums bring intense fruity sweetness to a satisfying morning meal. Nectarines or peaches would be just as delicious.