Save calories—and money—by packing one of these delicious and healthy lunchtime options. We pulled together 18 taste-bud-teasing sandwiches, salads, and grain bowls that will turn you into a true lunch genius. All you have to do is make a few basics on Sunday, and then you can easily throw together quick and nutritious lunchtime meals during the week. Here, our favorite healthy lunch foods, from a salmon bowl that's a great source of .  to fiber- and protein-packed wraps to fresh salads that are overflowing with good-for-you veggies. Dig in!. This omega-3-packed grain bowl is overflowing with healthy fats and delicious Asian-inspired flavors. Whip up the quick pickles and sautéed asparagus and mushrooms ahead of time to make this dish easy to pull together during the week.. Brown rice, flaked canned wild salmon, kosher salt, asparagus, oyster mushrooms, garlic, ginger, grapeseed oil, sesame oil, shredded carrot, unseasoned rice vinegar, honey, cucumbers, avocado oil, seaweed sheet.  444. : . Thanks to filling ingredients like quinoa, eggs, and avocado, this hearty meal will keep you full until dinner. Make the buttermilk-herb dressing ahead of time and store in the fridge to use as a delicious salad dressing throughout the week.. Cooked quinoa, green beans, corn kernels, cherry tomatoes, avocado, hard-boiled egg, kosher salt, black pepper, buttermilk-herb dressing (buttermilk, olive oil mayonnaise, lemon juice, chives, flat-leaf parsley, honey). 359. If you thought egg salad sandwiches were for kids, think again. This grown-up version features finely-chopped celery, fennel, and chives to add serious (and unexpected) flavor.. Hard-boiled eggs, buttermilk-herb dressing (buttermilk, olive oil mayonnaise, lemon juice, chives, flat-leaf parsley, honey), olive oil mayonnaise, kosher salt, black pepper, celery, fennel, chives, baby arugula, sprouted grain-bread.  447. All the flavors you've come to love from a classic cobb, plus some unexpected ones—think fresh corn kernels, green beans, and unsalted sunflower seeds.. Baby arugula, steamed green beans, corn kernels, buttermilk-herb dressing (buttermilk, olive oil mayonnaise, lemon juice, chives, flat-leaf parsley, honey), thinly sliced celery, cherry tomatoes, sunflower seeds, hard-boiled egg. 311. This veggie-packed salad is a great source of protein and fiber. The grilled steak and red wine vinaigrette can both be prepared ahead of time, making this dish super-easy to pull together on weekday mornings..  Romaine, English cucumber, roasted red bell peppers, grilled flank steak, grilled zucchini, grilled Japanese eggplant slices, red wine vinaigrette (red wine vinegar, lemon juice, Dijon mustard, extra-virgin olive oil, kosher salt, black pepper).  422. This good-for-you wrap is filled with Asian-inspired flavors and tons of healthy veggies. To boost the nutrition even more, look for a coconut-flour wrap, such as the ones from Julian Bakery..  Olive oil mayonnaise, sriracha, coconut-flour wrap, baby spinach, sautéed mushrooms, flaked canned wild salmon, quick pickles (unseasoned rice vinegar, honey, salt, cucumbers). 345. In addition to protein from the steak and fiber from the veggies and farro, this bowl contains a whopping 166 mg of calcium. Cook the grilled steak, zucchini, and onion ahead of time to make your weekday prep a breeze.. Romaine, toasted farro, grilled flank steak, grilled zucchini, jarred roasted red bell peppers, grilled onion, feta cheese, red wine vinaigrette (red wine vinegar, lemon juice, Dijon mustard, extra-virgin olive oil, kosher salt, black pepper).  457. If you're after a hearty lunch that won't derail your diet goals, this is the answer. With thick sourdough bread and protein-packed grilled steak, this sandwich will keep you feeling full all afternoon long..  Olive oil mayonnaise, sourdough bread, romaine lettuce, grilled onion, grilled Japanese eggplant slices, grilled flank steak. 436. This savory stacked sandwich combines rich roast beef with tangy blue cheese and fresh basil. You'll get fiber, protein, and even a healthy dose of calcium..  Jarred tomato chutney, roast beef, watercress sprigs, basil, blue cheese, pickle spears, whole-grain bread.  286. Packed with filling fiber, protein, and plenty of healthy fats, it doesn't get much more nutrient-rich than this salad. The rice vinaigrette can easily be prepared ahead of time..  Baby spinach, canned wild salmon, asparagus, oyster mushrooms, carrot, rice vinaigrette (unseasoned rice vinegar, honey, salt, cucumbers), kosher salt, toasted sesame seeds.  348. Tangy and light, this simple lunch offers all the nutrition you need. Spinach adds vitamin A and folate, while the whole-grain pita provides more than 20% of your daily fiber..  Baby spinach, boneless, skinless chicken, red bell pepper, low-fat Italian vinaigrette, whole-grain pita.  400. This lightened sandwich swaps cheese for decadent pesto, which is full of metabolism-boosting olive oil and pine nuts. Add in an apple, and you've got a delicious lunch for less than 400 calories..  Prepared pesto, pumpernickel bread, turkey, turkey bacon, romaine lettuce leaves, tomato, apple.  390. Instead of mayo, this crisp and crunchy chicken salad uses fresh herbs and lime juice to add flavor. The tart apples work well with the salty peanuts to make a light, portable lunch..  Boneless, skinless chicken breasts, salt, pepper, limes, white wine or rice vinegar, light brown sugar, scallions, Granny Smith apples, roasted peanuts, fresh mint, fresh basil.  269. A little prep work is necessary to make this veggie-packed summer salad. You cut calories by replacing meat with chickpeas, and it tastes especially refreshing on a hot summer day..  Lemons, garlic, honey, salt, black pepper, extra-virgin olive oil, Romaine lettuce, chickpeas, yellow bell pepper, cherry tomatoes, cucumber, red onion, kalamata olives, feta cheese, mint leaves, whole-wheat pitas.  278. Go south of the border with this low-cal Mexican dish. Though it contains plenty of filing protein and fiber, serve it in a whole-wheat wrap with a bit of Monterey Jack cheese for a complete meal..  Vegetable oil, garlic, corn, mango, red onions, red bell pepper, limes, cilantro, salt, cumin, chipotle chile, black beans, salad greens.  204. These spicy wraps pack the perfect amount of heat. Cream cheese balances out the strong flavors in the green onion, cilantro, and chili sauce to make a filling, fresh meal..  Nonfat cream cheese, tomato-based chili sauce, flour tortillas, romaine lettuce, cooked turkey, green onions, cilantro, olives.  445. You may think black-eyed peas are used only in soul food, but this salad proves that these fiber-rich legumes are a great addition to any meal. Savory ham and fresh dill create a spice-filled salad that is chock-full of crisp veggies..  Black-eyed peas, red or yellow bell pepper, shallots, celery, carrots, red cabbage, baked ham, fresh dill, Dijon mustard, red wine vinegar, extra-virgin olive oil, cumin, kosher salt, black pepper.  423. The curry adds a health-promoting antioxidant jolt to this traditional comfort dish. And you don't have to worry about fat from mayo—the Greek yogurt provides a low-fat, creamy texture..  Eggs, Greek-style low-fat yogurt, red bell pepper, curry powder, pepper, rye bread, spinach, orange, salt.  414