Take advantage of the pressure cooker and try some of these healthy recipes. They can save you significant amounts of time, from 20 minutes to 8 hours.. 
                      . The pressure cooker creates creamy risotto in a hands-free way. We tried this with Carnaroli and Arborio; we liked the forgiving nature of Carnaroli, which remained al dente, while Arborio rice produced a softer grain in the cooker. Don't worry if the rice is a tad runny after cooking—it thickens as it stands before serving..  .  . Dried chickpeas are typically soaked overnight and then simmered for up to two and a half hours to become tender. These, though, go into the pressure cooker dry and come out tender in just one hour! Use high-quality, cured Spanish chorizo (and not the fresh or raw Mexican version) for the best flavor and texture in this earthy, satisfying soup..  .  . Beets are ready when they can be pierced with a fork without too much resistance. If they're not quite tender enough, put them back under pressure for a minute or two. Prep the dressing while the beets cook..  .  . Don't limit your pressure cooker to stewing tough cuts of beef, pork, or lamb: You can prepare elegant entrées, too, like this chicken with a rich sauce and vegetables. For the best textured vegetables in this dish, allow the carrots, onions, and mushrooms to come to pressure, and then immediately take them off heat and release pressure..  .  . A classic pot roast is the "gateway" recipe to using your pressure cooker—it's quick, and you're rewarded with a hearty dish in a fraction of the time. Use the Pressure-Cooker Beef Stock (seen on next slide) here, or substitute 1 (14-ounce) can of fat-free, lower-sodium beef broth plus 1 1/2 cups water in its place. (You'll add about 50 milligrams sodium to each serving with this switch.).  .  . Say goodbye to store-bought versions: You can make fat-free, almost no-sodium stocks or broths at home in a snap with your pressure cooker. This beef broth delivers all the savory flavor of the slow-simmered recipe in about one-tenth of the cook time. Chilling the stock—as we advise in our recipe—is an easy way to remove excess fat, but you can also cool the strained liquid slightly and spoon off the excess fat for immediate use..  .  .  Versatile with a delicate flavor and texture, navy beans are also high in fiber: 9.6g in just half of cup.. Place 6 cups water, 1 cup dried navy beans, 1 teaspoon olive oil, and 1 bay leaf in pressure cooker. Close lid securely; bring to high pressure over high heat. Adjust heat to medium or level needed to maintain high pressure; cook 40 minutes. Remove from heat; release pressure through steam vent, or place cooker under cold running water to release pressure. Remove lid; drain beans. Discard bay leaf.
                      .  Place 1 1/4 cups water and 1 cup uncooked long-grain brown rice in the pressure cooker. Close lid securely; bring to high pressure over high heat. Adjust heat to medium or level needed to maintain high pressure; cook 17 minutes. Remove from heat; release pressure through steam vent, or place cooker under cold running water to release pressure. Remove lid.
                      .  Place 2 1/3 cups water and 1 1/4 cups uncooked wild rice (1 [8-ounce] package) in pressure cooker. Close lid securely; bring to high pressure over high heat. Adjust heat to medium or level needed to maintain pressure; cook 30 minutes. Remove from heat; release pressure through steam vent, or place cooker under cold running water to release pressure. Remove lid; drain any excess liquid.
                      .  Place 3 cups water, 1 1/2 teaspoons canola oil, and 1 cup uncooked kamut in pressure cooker. Close lid securely; bring to high pressure over high heat. Adjust heat to medium or level needed to maintain pressure; cook 10 minutes. Remove from heat; allow pressure to release naturally through steam vent. Remove lid; drain kamut.
                      .  Place 4 1/2 cups water, 1 cup uncooked pearl barley, and 1 tablespoon canola oil in pressure cooker. Close lid securely; bring to high pressure over high heat. Adjust heat to medium or level needed to maintain pressure; cook 18 minutes. Remove from heat; allow pressure to release naturally through steam vent. Remove lid; drain barley.
                      